ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
We design, develop, manufacture, sell and lease high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy generation and storage systems, and offer services related to our products. We generally sell our products directly to customers, and continue to grow our customer-facing infrastructure through a global network of vehicle showrooms and service centers, Mobile Service, body shops, Supercharger stations and Destination Chargers to accelerate the widespread adoption of our products. We emphasize performance, attractive styling and the safety of our users and workforce in the design and manufacture of our products and are continuing to develop full self-driving technology for improved safety. We also strive to lower the cost of ownership for our customers through continuous efforts to reduce manufacturing costs and by offering financial and other services tailored to our products. 
Our mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy. We believe that this mission, along with our engineering expertise, vertically integrated business model and focus on user experience differentiate us from other companies. 
Segment Information
We operate as two reportable segments: (i) automotive and (ii) energy generation and storage.
The automotive segment includes the design, development, manufacturing, sales and leasing of high-performance fully electric vehicles as well as sales of automotive regulatory credits. Additionally, the automotive segment also includes services and other, which includes sales of used vehicles, non-warranty after-sales vehicle services, body shop and parts, paid Supercharging, vehicle insurance revenue and retail merchandise. The energy generation and storage segment includes the design, manufacture, installation, sales and leasing of solar energy generation and energy storage products and related services and sales of solar energy systems incentives.
Our Products and Services
Automotive
We currently manufacture five different consumer vehicles – the Model 3, Y, S, X and Cybertruck. Model 3 is a four-door mid-size sedan that we designed for manufacturability with a base price for mass-market appeal. Model Y is a compact sport utility vehicle (“SUV”) built on the Model 3 platform with seating for up to seven adults. Model S is a four-door full-size sedan and Model X is a mid-size SUV with seating for up to seven adults. Model S and Model X feature the highest performance characteristics and longest ranges that we offer in a sedan and SUV, respectively. In November 2023, we entered the consumer pickup truck market with first deliveries of the Cybertruck, a full-size electric pickup truck with a stainless steel exterior that has the utility and strength of a truck while featuring the speed of a sports car. 
In 2022, we also began early production and deliveries of a commercial electric vehicle, the Tesla Semi. We have planned electric vehicles to address additional vehicle markets, and to continue leveraging developments in our proprietary Full Self-Driving (“FSD”) Capability features, battery cell and other technologies.
Energy Generation and Storage
Energy Storage Products
Powerwall and Megapack are our lithium-ion battery energy storage products. Powerwall, which we sell directly to customers, as well as through channel partners, is designed to store energy at a home or small commercial facility. Megapack is an energy storage solution for commercial, industrial, utility and energy generation customers, multiple of which may be grouped together to form larger installations of gigawatt hours (“GWh”) or greater capacity. 
We also continue to develop software capabilities for remotely controlling and dispatching our energy storage systems across a wide range of markets and applications, including through our real-time energy control and optimization platforms.
Solar Energy Offerings
We sell retrofit solar energy systems to customers and channel partners and also make them available through power purchase agreement (“PPA”) arrangements. We purchase most of the components for our retrofit solar energy systems from multiple sources to ensure competitive pricing and adequate supply. We also design and manufacture certain components for our solar energy products.
We sell our Solar Roof, which combines premium glass roof tiles with energy generation, directly to customers, as well as through channel customers. We continue to improve our installation capability and efficiency, including through collaboration with real estate developers and builders on new homes.
Technology
Automotive
Battery and Powertrain
Our core vehicle technology competencies include powertrain engineering and manufacturing and our ability to design vehicles that utilize the unique advantages of an electric powertrain. We have designed our proprietary powertrain systems to be adaptable, efficient, reliable and cost-effective while withstanding the rigors of an automotive environment. We offer dual motor powertrain vehicles, which use two electric motors to maximize traction and performance in an all-wheel drive configuration, as well as vehicle powertrain technology featuring three electric motors for further increased performance in certain versions of Model S and Model X, Cybertruck and the Tesla Semi.
We maintain extensive testing and R&D capabilities for battery cells, packs and systems, and have built an expansive body of knowledge on lithium-ion cell chemistry types and performance characteristics. In order to enable a greater supply of cells for our products with higher energy density at lower costs, we have developed a new proprietary lithium-ion battery cell and improved manufacturing processes.
Vehicle Control and Infotainment Software
The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs utilize sophisticated control software. Control systems in our vehicles optimize performance, customize vehicle behavior, manage charging and control all infotainment functions. We develop almost all of this software, including most of the user interfaces, internally and update our vehicles’ software regularly through over-the-air updates.
Self-Driving Development and Artificial Intelligence 
We have expertise in developing technologies, systems and software to enable self-driving vehicles using primarily vision-based technologies. Our FSD Computer runs our neural networks in our vehicles, and we are also developing additional computer hardware to better enable the massive amounts of field data captured by our vehicles to continually train and improve these neural networks for real-world performance. 
Currently, we offer in our vehicles certain advanced driver assist systems under our Autopilot and FSD Capability options. Although at present the driver is ultimately responsible for controlling the vehicle, our systems provide safety and convenience functionality that relieves drivers of the most tedious and potentially dangerous aspects of road travel much like the system that airplane pilots use, when conditions permit. As with other vehicle systems, we improve these functions in our vehicles over time through over-the-air updates.
We intend to establish in the future an autonomous Tesla ride-hailing network, which we expect would also allow us to access a new customer base even as modes of transportation evolve.
We are also applying our artificial intelligence learnings from self-driving technology to the field of robotics, such as through Optimus, a robotic humanoid in development, which is controlled by the same AI system. 
Energy Generation and Storage
Energy Storage Products
We leverage many of the component-level technologies from our vehicles in our energy storage products. By taking a modular approach to the design of battery systems, we can optimize manufacturing capacity of our energy storage products. Additionally, our expertise in power electronics enables our battery systems to interconnect with electricity grids while providing fast-acting systems for power injection and absorption. We have also developed software to remotely control and dispatch our energy storage systems.
Solar Energy Systems
We have engineered Solar Roof over numerous iterations to combine aesthetic appeal and durability with power generation. The efficiency of our solar energy products is aided by our own solar inverter, which incorporates our power electronics technologies. We designed both products to integrate with Powerwall.
Design and Engineering
Automotive
We have established significant in-house capabilities in the design and test engineering of electric vehicles and their components and systems. Our team has significant experience in computer-aided design as well as durability, strength and crash test simulations, which reduces the product development time of new models. We have also achieved complex engineering feats in stamping, casting and thermal systems, and developed a method to integrate batteries directly with vehicle body structures without separate battery packs to optimize manufacturability, weight, range and cost characteristics.
We are also expanding our manufacturing operations globally while taking action to localize our vehicle designs and production for particular markets, including country-specific market demands and factory optimizations for local workforces. As we increase our capabilities, particularly in the areas of automation, die-making and line-building, we are also making strides in the simulations modeling these capabilities prior to construction.
Energy Generation and Storage
Our expertise in electrical, mechanical, civil and software engineering allows us to design, engineer, manufacture and install energy generating and storage products and components, including at the residential through utility scale. For example, the modular design of our Megapack utility-scale battery line is intended to significantly reduce the amount of assembly required in the field. We also customize solutions including our energy storage products, solar energy systems and/or Solar Roof for customers to meet their specific needs. 
Sales and Marketing
Historically, we have been able to achieve sales without traditional advertising and at relatively low marketing costs. We continue to monitor our public narrative and brand, and tailor our marketing efforts accordingly, including through investments in customer education and advertising as necessary.
Automotive
Direct Sales
Our vehicle sales channels currently include our website and an international network of company-owned stores. In some jurisdictions, we also have galleries to educate and inform customers about our products, but such locations do not transact in the sale of vehicles. We believe this infrastructure enables us to better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing, educate consumers about electric vehicles, make our vehicles more affordable, maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand and obtain rapid customer feedback. 
We reevaluate our sales strategy both globally and at a location-by-location level from time to time to optimize our sales channels. However, sales of vehicles in the automobile industry tend to be cyclical in many markets, which may expose us to volatility from time to time.
Used Vehicle Sales
Our used vehicle business supports new vehicle sales by integrating the trade-in of a customer’s existing Tesla or non-Tesla vehicle with the sale of a new or used Tesla vehicle. The Tesla and non-Tesla vehicles we acquire as trade-ins are subsequently remarketed, either directly by us or through third parties. We also remarket used Tesla vehicles acquired from other sources including lease returns.
Public Charging
We have a growing global network of Tesla Superchargers, which are our industrial-grade, high-speed vehicle chargers. Where possible, we co-locate Superchargers with our solar and energy storage systems to reduce costs and promote renewable power. Supercharger stations are typically placed along well-traveled routes and in and around dense city centers to allow vehicle owners the ability to enjoy quick, reliable charging along an extensive network with convenient stops. Use of the Supercharger network either requires payment of a fee or is free under certain sales programs. In November 2021, we began to offer Supercharger access to non-Tesla vehicles in certain locations in support of our mission to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy, and in November 2022, we opened up our previously proprietary charging connector as the North American Charging Standard (NACS). This enables all electric vehicles and charging stations to interoperate — which makes charging easier and more efficient for everyone and advances our mission to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy. Following this, a number of major automotive companies announced their adoption of NACS, with their access to the Supercharger network beginning in phases in 2024 and their production of NACS vehicles beginning no later than 2025. We also engaged SAE International to govern NACS as an industry standard, now named J3400. We continue to monitor and increase our network of Tesla Superchargers in anticipation of future demand.
We also work with a wide variety of hospitality, retail and public destinations, as well as businesses with commuting employees, to offer additional charging options for our customers, as well as single-family homeowners and multi-family residential entities, to deploy home charging solutions.
In-App Upgrades 
As our vehicles are capable of being updated remotely over-the-air, our customers may purchase additional paid options and features through the Tesla app or through the in-vehicle user interface. We expect that this functionality will also allow us to offer certain options and features on a subscription basis in the future.
Energy Generation and Storage
We market and sell our solar and energy storage products to residential, commercial and industrial customers and utilities through a variety of channels, including through our website, stores and galleries, as well as through our network of channel partners, and in the case of some commercial customers, through PPA transactions. We emphasize simplicity, standardization and accessibility to make it easy and cost-effective for customers to adopt clean energy, while reducing our customer acquisition costs. 
Service and Warranty
Automotive
Service
We provide service for our electric vehicles at our company-owned service locations and through Tesla Mobile Service technicians who perform work remotely at customers’ homes or other locations. Servicing the vehicles ourselves allows us to identify problems and implement solutions and improvements faster than traditional automobile manufacturers and their dealer networks. The connectivity of our vehicles also allows us to diagnose and remedy many problems remotely and proactively.
Vehicle Limited Warranties and Extended Service Plans
We provide a manufacturer’s limited warranty on all new and used Tesla vehicles we sell directly to consumers, which may include limited warranties on certain components, specific types of damage or battery capacity retention. We also currently offer optional extended service plans that provide coverage beyond the new vehicle limited warranties for certain models in specified regions.
Energy Generation and Storage
We provide service and repairs to our energy product customers, including under warranty where applicable. We generally provide manufacturer’s limited warranties with our energy storage products and offer certain extended limited warranties that are available at the time of purchase of the system. If we install a system, we also provide certain limited warranties on our installation workmanship. 
For retrofit solar energy systems, we provide separate limited warranties for workmanship and against roof leaks, and for Solar Roof, we also provide limited warranties for defects and weatherization. For components not manufactured by us, we generally pass-through the applicable manufacturers’ warranties.
As part of our solar energy system and energy storage contracts, we may provide the customer with performance guarantees that commit that the underlying system will meet or exceed the minimum energy generation or performance requirements specified in the contract.
Financial Services
Automotive
Purchase Financing and Leases
We offer leasing and/or loan financing arrangements for our vehicles in certain jurisdictions in North America, Europe and Asia ourselves and through various financial institutions. Under certain of such programs, we have provided resale value guarantees or buyback guarantees that may obligate us to cover a resale loss up to a certain limit or repurchase the subject vehicles at pre-determined values. 
Insurance
In 2021, we launched our insurance product using real-time driving behavior in select states, which offers rates that are often better than other alternatives and promotes safer driving. Our insurance products are currently available in 12 states and we plan to expand the markets in which we offer insurance products, as part of our ongoing effort to decrease the total cost of ownership for our customers.
Energy Generation and Storage
We offer certain financing options to our solar customers, which enable the customer to purchase and own a solar energy system, Solar Roof or integrated solar and Powerwall system. Our solar PPAs, offered primarily to commercial customers, charge a fee per kilowatt-hour based on the amount of electricity produced by our solar energy systems. 
Manufacturing
We currently have manufacturing facilities in the U.S. in Northern California, in Buffalo, New York, Gigafactory New York; in Austin, Texas, Gigafactory Texas and near Reno, Nevada, Gigafactory Nevada. At these facilities, we manufacture and assemble, among other things, vehicles, certain vehicle parts and components, such as our battery packs and battery cells, energy storage components and solar products and components. 
Internationally, we also have manufacturing facilities in China (Gigafactory Shanghai) and Germany (Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg), which allows us to increase the affordability of our vehicles for customers in local markets by reducing transportation and manufacturing costs and eliminating the impact of unfavorable tariffs. In March 2023, we announced the location of our next Gigafactory in Monterrey, Mexico. Generally, we continue to expand production capacity at our existing facilities. We also intend to further increase cost-competitiveness in our significant markets by strategically adding local manufacturing. 
Supply Chain
Our products use thousands of parts that are sourced from hundreds of suppliers across the world. We have developed close relationships with vendors of key parts such as battery cells, electronics and complex vehicle assemblies. Certain components purchased from these suppliers are shared or are similar across many product lines, allowing us to take advantage of pricing efficiencies from economies of scale.
As is the case for some automotive companies, some of our procured components and systems are sourced from single suppliers. Where multiple sources are available for certain key components, we work to qualify multiple suppliers for them where it is sensible to do so in order to minimize potential production risks due to disruptions in their supply. We also mitigate risk by maintaining safety stock for key parts and assemblies and die banks for components with lengthy procurement lead times.
Our products use various raw materials including aluminum, steel, cobalt, lithium, nickel and copper. Pricing for these materials is governed by market conditions and may fluctuate due to various factors outside of our control, such as supply and demand and market speculation. We strive to execute long-term supply contracts for such materials at competitive pricing when feasible, and we currently believe that we have adequate access to raw materials supplies to meet the needs of our operations.
Governmental Programs, Incentives and Regulations
Globally, the ownership of our products by our customers is impacted by various government credits, incentives, and policies. Our business and products are also subject to numerous governmental regulations that vary among jurisdictions.
The operation of our business is also impacted by various government programs, incentives, and other arrangements. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.
Programs and Incentives
Inflation Reduction Act 
On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) was enacted into law and is effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022, and remains subject to future guidance releases. The IRA includes multiple incentives to promote clean energy, electric vehicles, battery and energy storage manufacture or purchase, including through providing tax credits to consumers. For example, qualifying Tesla customers may receive up to $7,500 in federal tax credits for the purchase of qualified electric vehicles in the U.S. through 2032.
Automotive Regulatory Credits
We earn tradable credits in the operation of our business under various regulations related to zero-emission vehicles (“ZEVs”), greenhouse gas, fuel economy and clean fuel. We sell these credits to other regulated entities who can use the credits to comply with emission standards and other regulatory requirements. Sales of these credits are recognized within automotive regulatory credits revenue in our consolidated statements of operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Energy Storage System Incentives and Policies
While the regulatory regime for energy storage projects is still under development, there are various policies, incentives and financial mechanisms at the federal, state and local levels that support the adoption of energy storage. 
For example, energy storage systems that are charged using solar energy may be eligible for the solar energy-related U.S. federal tax credits described below. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) has also taken steps to enable the participation of energy storage in wholesale energy markets. In addition, California and a number of other states have adopted procurement targets for energy storage, and behind-the-meter energy storage systems qualify for funding under the California Self Generation Incentive Program. Our customers primarily benefit directly under these programs. In certain instances our customers may transfer such credits to us as contract consideration. In such transactions, they are included as a component of energy generation and storage revenues in our consolidated statements of operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Pursuant to the IRA, under Sections 48, 48E and 25D of the Internal Revenue Code (”IRC”), standalone energy storage technology is eligible for a tax credit between 6% and 50% of qualified expenditures, regardless of the source of energy, which may be claimed by our customers for storage systems they purchase or by us for arrangements where we own the systems. These tax credits are primarily for the benefit of our customers and are currently scheduled to phase-out starting in 2032 or later. 
Solar Energy System Incentives and Policies
U.S. federal, state and local governments have established various policies, incentives and financial mechanisms to reduce the cost of solar energy and to accelerate the adoption of solar energy. These incentives include tax credits, cash grants, tax abatements and rebates.
In particular, pursuant to the IRA, Sections 48, 48E and 25D of the IRC provides a tax credit between 6% and 70% of qualified commercial or residential expenditures for solar energy systems, which may be claimed by our customers for systems they purchase, or by us for arrangements where we own the systems for properties that meet statutory requirements. These tax credits are primarily for the direct benefit of our customers and are currently scheduled to phase-out starting in 2032 or later. 
Regulations
Vehicle Safety and Testing
In the U.S., our vehicles are subject to regulation by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”), including all applicable Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (“FMVSS”) and the NHTSA bumper standard. Numerous FMVSS apply to our vehicles, such as crash-worthiness and occupant protection requirements. Our current vehicles fully comply and we expect that our vehicles in the future will fully comply with all applicable FMVSS with limited or no exemptions, however, FMVSS are subject to change from time to time. As a manufacturer, we must self-certify that our vehicles meet all applicable FMVSS and the NHTSA bumper standard, or otherwise are exempt, before the vehicles may be imported or sold in the U.S. 
We are also required to comply with other federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, Theft Prevention Act requirements, labeling requirements and other information provided to customers in writing, Early Warning Reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, a Standing General Order requiring reports regarding crashes involving vehicles equipped with advanced driver assistance systems, and additional requirements for cooperating with compliance and safety investigations and recall reporting. The U.S. Automobile Information and Disclosure Act also requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, federal law requires inclusion of fuel economy ratings, as determined by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), and New Car Assessment Program ratings as determined by NHTSA, if available. 
Our vehicles sold outside of the U.S. are subject to similar foreign compliance, safety, environmental and other regulations. Many of those regulations are different from those applicable in the U.S. and may require redesign and/or retesting. Some of those regulations impact or prevent the rollout of new vehicle features. 
Self-Driving Vehicles
Generally, laws pertaining to self-driving vehicles are evolving globally, and in some cases may create restrictions on features or vehicle designs that we develop. While there are currently no federal U.S. regulations pertaining specifically to self-driving vehicles or self-driving equipment, NHTSA has published recommended guidelines on self-driving vehicles, apart from the FMVSS and manufacturer reporting obligations, and retains the authority to investigate and/or take action on the safety or compliance of any vehicle, equipment or features operating on public roads. Certain U.S. states also have legal restrictions on the operation, registration or licensure of self-driving vehicles, and many other states are considering them. This regulatory patchwork increases the legal complexity with respect to self-driving vehicles in the U.S. 
In markets that follow the regulations of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (“ECE markets”), some requirements restrict the design of advanced driver-assistance or self-driving features, which can compromise or prevent their use entirely. Other applicable laws, both current and proposed, may hinder the path and timeline to introducing self-driving vehicles for sale and use in the markets where they apply. 
Other key markets, including China, continue to consider self-driving regulation. Any implemented regulations may differ materially from the U.S. and ECE markets, which may further increase the legal complexity of self-driving vehicles and limit or prevent certain features.
Automobile Manufacturer and Dealer Regulation
In the U.S., state laws regulate the manufacture, distribution, sale and service of automobiles, and generally require motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed in order to sell vehicles directly to residents. Certain states have asserted that the laws in such states do not permit automobile manufacturers to be licensed as dealers or to act in the capacity of a dealer, or that they otherwise restrict a manufacturer’s ability to deliver or perform warranty repairs on vehicles. To sell vehicles to residents of states where we are not licensed as a dealer, we generally conduct the sale out of the state. In certain such states, we have opened “galleries” that serve an educational purpose and where sales may not occur.
Some automobile dealer trade associations have both challenged the legality of our operations in court and used administrative and legislative processes to attempt to prohibit or limit our ability to operate existing stores or expand to new locations. Certain dealer associations have also actively lobbied state licensing agencies and legislators to interpret existing laws or enact new laws in ways not favorable to our ownership and operation of our own retail and service locations. We expect such challenges to continue, and we intend to actively fight any such efforts.
Battery Safety and Testing
Our battery packs are subject to various U.S. and international regulations that govern transport of “dangerous goods,” defined to include lithium-ion batteries, which may present a risk in transportation. We conduct testing to demonstrate our compliance with such regulations.
We use lithium-ion cells in our high voltage battery packs in our vehicles and energy storage products. The use, storage and disposal of our battery packs are regulated under existing laws and are the subject of ongoing regulatory changes that may add additional requirements in the future. We have agreements with third party battery recycling companies to recycle our battery packs, and we are also piloting our own recycling technology.
Solar Energy—General
We are subject to certain state and federal regulations applicable to solar and battery storage providers and sellers of electricity. To operate our systems, we enter into standard interconnection agreements with applicable utilities. Sales of electricity and non-sale equipment leases by third parties, such as our leases and PPAs, have faced regulatory challenges in some states and jurisdictions.
Solar Energy—Net Metering
Most states in the U.S. make net energy metering, or net metering, available to solar customers. Net metering typically allows solar customers to interconnect their solar energy systems to the utility grid and offset their utility electricity purchases by receiving a bill credit for excess energy generated by their solar energy system that is exported to the grid. In certain jurisdictions, regulators or utilities have reduced or eliminated the benefit available under net metering or have proposed to do so.
Competition
Automotive
The worldwide automotive market is highly competitive and we expect it will become even more competitive in the future as a significant and growing number of established and new automobile manufacturers, as well as other companies, have entered, or are reported to have plans to enter the electric vehicle market. 
We believe that our vehicles compete in the market based on both their traditional segment classification as well as their propulsion technology. For example, Cybertruck competes with other pickup trucks, Model S and Model X compete primarily with premium sedans and premium SUVs and Model 3 and Model Y compete with small to medium-sized sedans and compact SUVs, which are extremely competitive markets. Competing products typically include internal combustion vehicles from more established automobile manufacturers; however, many established and new automobile manufacturers have entered or have announced plans to enter the market for electric and other alternative fuel vehicles. Overall, we believe these announcements and vehicle introductions, including the introduction of electric vehicles into rental car company fleets, promote the development of the electric vehicle market by highlighting the attractiveness of electric vehicles relative to the internal combustion vehicle. Many major automobile manufacturers have electric vehicles available today in major markets including the U.S., China and Europe, and other current and prospective automobile manufacturers are also developing electric vehicles. In addition, several manufacturers offer hybrid vehicles, including plug-in versions. 
We believe that there is also increasing competition for our vehicle offerings as a platform for delivering self-driving technologies, charging solutions and other features and services, and we expect to compete in this developing market through continued progress on our Autopilot, FSD and neural network capabilities, Supercharger network and our infotainment offerings.
Energy Generation and Storage
Energy Storage Systems
The market for energy storage products is also highly competitive, and both established and emerging companies have introduced products that are similar to our product portfolio or that are alternatives to the elements of our systems. We compete with these companies based on price, energy density and efficiency. We believe that the specifications and features of our products, our strong brand and the modular, scalable nature of our energy storage products give us a competitive advantage in our markets.
Solar Energy Systems
The primary competitors to our solar energy business are the traditional local utility companies that supply energy to our potential customers. We compete with these traditional utility companies primarily based on price and the ease by which customers can switch to electricity generated by our solar energy systems. We also compete with solar energy companies that provide products and services similar to ours. Many solar energy companies only install solar energy systems, while others only provide financing for these installations. We believe we have a significant expansion opportunity with our offerings and that the regulatory environment is increasingly conducive to the adoption of renewable energy systems.
Intellectual Property
We place a strong emphasis on our innovative approach and proprietary designs which bring intrinsic value and uniqueness to our product portfolio. As part of our business, we seek to protect the underlying intellectual property rights of these innovations and designs such as with respect to patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidential information and other measures, including through employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements. For example, we place a high priority on obtaining patents to provide the broadest and strongest possible protection to enable our freedom to operate our innovations and designs across all of our products and technologies as well as to protect and defend our product portfolio. We have also adopted a patent policy in which we irrevocably pledged that we will not initiate a lawsuit against any party for infringing our patents through activity relating to electric vehicles or related equipment for so long as such party is acting in good faith. We made this pledge in order to encourage the advancement of a common, rapidly-evolving platform for electric vehicles, thereby benefiting ourselves, other companies making electric vehicles and the world.
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and Human Capital Resources
ESG
The very purpose of Tesla's existence is to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy. We believe the world cannot reduce carbon emissions without addressing both energy generation and consumption, and we are designing and manufacturing a complete energy and transportation ecosystem to achieve this goal. As we expand, we are building each new factory to be more efficient and sustainably designed than the previous one, including with respect to per-unit waste reduction and resource consumption, including water and energy usage. We are focused on further enhancing sustainability of operations outside of our direct control, including reducing the carbon footprint of our supply chain. 
We are committed to sourcing only responsibly produced materials, and our suppliers are required to provide evidence of management systems that ensure social, environmental and sustainability best practices in their own operations, as well as to demonstrate a commitment to responsible sourcing into their supply chains. We have a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to child or forced labor and human trafficking by our suppliers and we look to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Due Diligence Guidelines to inform our process and use feedback from our internal and external stakeholders to find ways to continually improve. We are also driving safety in our own factories by focusing on worker engagement. Our incidents per vehicle continue to drop even as our production volumes increase. We also strive to be an employer of choice by offering compelling, impactful jobs with best in-industry benefits. 
We believe that sound corporate governance is critical to helping us achieve our goals, including with respect to ESG. We continue to evolve a governance framework that exercises appropriate oversight of responsibilities at all levels throughout the company and manages its affairs consistent with high principles of business ethics. Our ESG Sustainability Council is made up of leaders from across our company, and regularly presents to our Board of Directors, which oversees our ESG impacts, initiatives and priorities.
Human Capital Resources
A competitive edge for Tesla is its ability to attract and retain high quality employees. During the past year, Tesla made substantial investments in its workforce, further strengthening its standing as one of the most desirable and innovative companies to work for. As of December 31, 2023, our employee headcount worldwide was 140,473.
We have created an environment that fosters growth opportunities, and as of this report, nearly two-thirds (65%) of our managers were promoted from an internal, non-manager position, and 43% of our management employees have been with Tesla for more than five years. Tesla’s growth of 35% over the past two years has offered internal career development to our employees as well as the ability to make a meaningful contribution to a sustainable future. 
We are able to retain our employees, in part, not only because employees can enjoy ownership in Tesla through stock (of which 89% have been given the opportunity to), but because we also provide them with excellent health benefits such as free counseling, paid parental leave, paid time off and zero-premium medical plan options that are made available on the first day of employment.
We recognize the positive impact that leaders can have on their teams and offer fundamental skills training and continuous development to all leaders through various programs globally. 
We don’t stop there. Tesla has several other programs strategically designed to increase paths for greater career opportunity such as:
•Technician Trainee (Service) – The Tesla Technician Trainee Program provides on-the-job automotive maintenance training at Tesla, resulting in an industry certification. Targeted at individuals with limited experience, whether in industry or vocational schools, the program prepares trainees for employment as technicians. In 2023, we hired over 1,900 Technician Trainees across the U.S., Germany and China. 
•START (Manufacturing and Service) – Tesla START is an intensive training program that complements the Technician Trainee program and equips individuals with the skills needed for a successful technician role at Tesla. We have partnered with colleges and technical academies to launch Tesla START in the U.S., United Kingdom and Germany. In 2023, we hired over 350 trainees for manufacturing and service roles through this program, providing an opportunity to transition into full-time employment.
•Internships – Annually, Tesla hires over 6,000 university and college students from around the world. We recruit from diverse student organizations and campuses, seeking top talent passionate about our mission. Our interns engage in meaningful work from day one, and we often offer them full-time positions post-internship. 
•Military Fellowship and Transition Programs – The Military Fellowship and Transition Programs are designed to offer exiting military service members in the U.S. and Europe with career guidance on transitioning into the civil workforce. We partner with the career transition services of European Defence Ministries across five countries, as well as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Hire our Heroes. These programs aim to convert high-performing individuals to full-time roles and create a veteran talent pipeline. 
•Apprenticeships – Tesla Apprenticeships are offered globally, providing academic and on-the-job training to prepare specialists in skilled trades. Apprentices will complete between one to four years of on-the-job training. Apprentice programs have seen skilled trade hires across the U.S., Australia, Hong Kong, Korea and Germany.
•Manufacturing Development Program – Tesla's manufacturing pathway program is designed to provide graduating high school seniors with the financial resources, coursework and experience they need to start a successful manufacturing career at Tesla. We hired 373 graduates through this program in 2023, and our goal in 2024 is grow this program to over 600 students annually across our Fremont Factory, Gigafactory Nevada, Gigafactory Texas and Gigafactory New York.
•Engineering Development Program – Launched in January 2024, this program targets recent college and university graduates for specialized engineering fields. In collaboration with Austin Community College, the program educates early-career engineers in controls engineering, enhancing their knowledge of high-demand technologies for U.S. manufacturing. 
We will continue to expand the opportunities for our employees to add skills and develop professionally with a new Employee Educational Assistance Program launching in the U.S. in the spring of 2024 to help employees pursue select certificates or degrees. With virtual, self-paced education options available, employees can pursue a new path or expand their knowledge while continuing to grow their career. 
At Tesla, our employees show up passionate about making a difference in the world and for each other. We remain unwavering in our demand that our factories, offices, stores and service centers are places where our employees feel respected and appreciated. Our policies are designed to promote fairness and respect for everyone. We hire, evaluate and promote employees based on their skills and performance. Everyone is expected to be trustworthy, demonstrate excellence in their performance and collaborate with others. With this in mind, we will not tolerate certain behaviors. These include harassment, retaliation, violence, intimidation and discrimination of any kind on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, disability or veteran status.
Anti-harassment training is conducted on day one of new hire orientation for all employees and reoccurring for leaders. In addition, we run various leadership development programs throughout the year aimed at enhancing leaders’ skills, and in particular, helping them to understand how to appropriately respond to and address employee concerns.
Employees are encouraged to speak up both in regard to misconduct and safety concerns and can do so by contacting the integrity line, submitting concerns through our Take Charge process, or notifying their Human Resource Partner or any member of management. Concerns are reviewed in accordance with established protocols by investigators with expertise, who also review for trends and outcomes for remediation and appropriate controls. Responding to questions timely is key so Human Resource Partners for each functional area are visible throughout facilities and are actively involved in driving culture and engagement alongside business leaders.
Available Information
We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our website is located at www.tesla.com, and our reports, amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at ir.tesla.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For further discussion of our products and services, technology and competitive strengths, refer to Item 1- Business. For discussion related to changes in financial condition and the results of operations for fiscal year 2022-related items, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2022, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 31, 2023.
Overview and 2023 Highlights
Our mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy. We design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also offer maintenance, installation, operation, charging, insurance, financial and other services related to our products. Additionally, we are increasingly focused on products and services based on artificial intelligence, robotics and automation.
In 2023, we produced 1,845,985 consumer vehicles and delivered 1,808,581 consumer vehicles. We are currently focused on increasing vehicle production, capacity and delivery capabilities, reducing costs, improving and developing our vehicles and battery technologies, vertically integrating and localizing our supply chain, improving and further deploying our FSD capabilities, increasing the affordability and efficiency of our vehicles, bringing new products to market and expanding our global infrastructure, including our service and charging infrastructure.
In 2023, we deployed 14.72 GWh of energy storage products and 223 megawatts of solar energy systems. We are currently focused on ramping production of energy storage products, improving our Solar Roof installation capability and efficiency, and increasing market share of retrofit solar energy systems.
In 2023, we recognized total revenues of $96.77 billion, representing an increase of $15.31 billion, compared to the prior year. We continue to ramp production, build new manufacturing capacity and expand our operations to enable increased deliveries and deployments of our products, and invest in research and development to accelerate our AI, software and fleet-based profits for further revenue growth. 
In 2023, our net income attributable to common stockholders was $15.00 billion, representing a favorable change of $2.44 billion, compared to the prior year. This included a one-time non-cash tax benefit of $5.93 billion for the release of valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. We continue to focus on further cost reductions and operational efficiencies while maximizing delivery volumes.
We ended 2023 with $29.09 billion in cash and cash equivalents and investments, representing an increase of $6.91 billion from the end of 2022. Our cash flows provided by operating activities in 2023 and 2022 were $13.26 billion and $14.72 billion, respectively, representing a decrease of $1.47 billion. Capital expenditures amounted to $8.90 billion in 2023, compared to $7.16 billion in 2022, representing an increase of $1.74 billion. Sustained growth has allowed our business to generally fund itself, and we will continue investing in a number of capital-intensive projects and research and development in upcoming periods.
Management Opportunities, Challenges and Uncertainties and 2024 Outlook
Automotive—Production 
The following is a summary of the status of production of each of our announced vehicle models in production and under development, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

Production Location | Vehicle Model(s) | Production Status
Fremont Factory | Model S / Model X | Active 
 | Model 3 / Model Y | Active 
Gigafactory Shanghai | Model 3 / Model Y | Active 
Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg | Model Y | Active 
Gigafactory Texas | Model Y | Active 
 | Cybertruck | Active 
Gigafactory Nevada | Tesla Semi | Pilot production 
Various | Next Generation Platform | In development 
TBD | Tesla Roadster | In development 

We are focused on growing our manufacturing capacity, which includes capacity for manufacturing new vehicle models such as our Cybertruck and next generation platform, and ramping all of our production vehicles to their installed production capacities as well as increasing production rate and efficiency at our current factories. The next phase of production growth will depend on the continued ramp at our factories and the introduction of our next generation platform, as well as our ability to add to our available sources of battery cell supply by manufacturing our own cells that we are developing to have high-volume output, lower capital and production costs and longer range. Our goals are to improve vehicle performance, decrease production costs and increase affordability and customer awareness. 
These plans are subject to uncertainties inherent in establishing and ramping manufacturing operations, which may be exacerbated by new product and manufacturing technologies we introduce, the number of concurrent international projects, any industry-wide component constraints, labor shortages and any future impact from events outside of our control. For example, during the third quarter of 2023, we experienced a sequential decline in production volumes due to pre-planned shutdowns for upgrades at various factories. Moreover, we have set ambitious technological targets with our plans for battery cells as well as for iterative manufacturing and design improvements for our vehicles with each new factory.
Automotive—Demand, Sales, Deliveries and Infrastructure
Our cost reduction efforts, cost innovation strategies, and additional localized procurement and manufacturing are key to our vehicles’ affordability and have allowed us to competitively price our vehicles. We will also continue to generate demand and brand awareness by improving our vehicles’ performance and functionality, including through products based on artificial intelligence such as Autopilot, FSD Capability, and other software features and delivering new vehicles, such as our Cybertruck. Moreover, we expect to continue to benefit from ongoing electrification of the automotive sector and increasing environmental regulations and initiatives. 
However, we operate in a cyclical industry that is sensitive to political and regulatory uncertainty, including with respect to trade and the environment, all of which can be compounded by inflationary pressures, rising energy prices, interest rate fluctuations and the liquidity of enterprise customers. For example, inflationary pressures have increased across the markets in which we operate. In an effort to curb this trend, central banks in developed countries raised interest rates rapidly and substantially, impacting the affordability of vehicle lease and finance arrangements. Further, sales of vehicles in the automotive industry also tend to be cyclical in many markets, which may expose us to increased volatility as we expand and adjust our operations. Moreover, as additional competitors enter the marketplace and help bring the world closer to sustainable transportation, we will have to adjust and continue to execute well to maintain our momentum. Additionally, our suppliers’ liquidity and allocation plans may be affected by current challenges in the North American automotive industry, which could reduce our access to components or result in unfavorable changes to cost. These macroeconomic and industry trends have had, and will likely continue to have, an impact on the pricing of, and order rate for our vehicles, and in turn our operating margin. Changes in government and economic incentives in relation to electric vehicles may also impact our sales. We will continue to adjust accordingly to such developments, and we believe our ongoing cost reduction, including improved production innovation and efficiency at our newest factories and lower logistics costs, and focus on operating leverage will continue to benefit us in relation to our competitors, while our new products will help enable future growth. 
As our production increases, we must work constantly to similarly increase vehicle delivery capability so that it does not become a bottleneck on our total deliveries. We are also committed to reducing the percentage of vehicles delivered in the third month of each quarter, which will help to reduce the cost per vehicle. As we expand our manufacturing operations globally, we will also have to continue to increase and staff our delivery, servicing and charging infrastructure accordingly, maintain our vehicle reliability and optimize our Supercharger locations to ensure cost effectiveness and customer satisfaction. In particular, as other automotive manufacturers have announced their adoption of the North American Charging Standard (“NACS”) and agreements with us to utilize our Superchargers, we must correspondingly expand our network in order to ensure adequate availability to meet customer demands. We also remain focused on continued enhancements of the capability and efficiency of our servicing operations.
Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment
The long-term success of this business is dependent upon increasing margins through greater volumes. We continue to increase the production of our energy storage products to meet high levels of demand, including the construction of a new Megafactory in Shanghai and the ongoing ramp at our Megafactory in Lathrop, California. For Megapack, energy storage deployments can vary meaningfully quarter to quarter depending on the timing of specific project milestones. We remain committed to growing our retrofit solar energy business by offering a low-cost and simplified online ordering experience. In addition, we continue to seek to improve our installation capabilities and price efficiencies for Solar Roof. As these product lines grow, we will have to maintain adequate battery cell supply for our energy storage products and ensure the availability of qualified personnel, particularly skilled electricians, to support the ramp of Solar Roof. 
Cash Flow and Capital Expenditure Trends 
Our capital expenditures are typically difficult to project beyond the short-term given the number and breadth of our core projects at any given time, and may further be impacted by uncertainties in future global market conditions. We are simultaneously ramping new products, building or ramping manufacturing facilities on three continents, piloting the development and manufacture of new battery cell technologies, expanding our Supercharger network and investing in autonomy and other artificial intelligence enabled training and products, and the pace of our capital spend may vary depending on overall priority among projects, the pace at which we meet milestones, production adjustments to and among our various products, increased capital efficiencies and the addition of new projects. Owing and subject to the foregoing as well as the pipeline of announced projects under development, all other continuing infrastructure growth and varying levels of inflation, we currently expect our capital expenditures to exceed $10.00 billion in 2024 and be between $8.00 to $10.00 billion in each of the following two fiscal years.
Our business has been consistently generating cash flow from operations in excess of our level of capital spend, and with better working capital management resulting in shorter days sales outstanding than days payable outstanding, our sales growth is also generally facilitating positive cash generation. We have and will continue to utilize such cash flows, among other things, to do more vertical integration, expand our product roadmap and provide financing options to our customers. At the same time, we are likely to see heightened levels of capital expenditures during certain periods depending on the specific pace of our capital-intensive projects and other potential variables such as rising material prices and increases in supply chain and labor expenses resulting from changes in global trade conditions and labor availability. Overall, we expect our ability to be self-funding to continue as long as macroeconomic factors support current trends in our sales.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”). The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected.
The estimates used for, but not limited to, determining significant economic incentive for resale value guarantee arrangements, sales return reserves, the collectability of accounts and financing receivables, inventory valuation, warranties, fair value of long-lived assets, goodwill, fair value of financial instruments, fair value and residual value of operating lease vehicles and solar energy systems subject to leases could be impacted. We have assessed the impact and are not aware of any specific events or circumstances that required an update to our estimates and assumptions or materially affected the carrying value of our assets or liabilities as of the date of issuance of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These estimates may change as new events occur and additional information is obtained. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Revenue Recognition
Automotive Sales
Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to cash and financing deliveries of new vehicles, and specific other features and services that meet the definition of a performance obligation under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”), including access to our FSD Capability features and their ongoing maintenance, internet connectivity, free Supercharging programs and over-the-air software updates. We recognize revenue on automotive sales upon delivery to the customer, which is when the control of a vehicle transfers. Payments are typically received at the point control transfers or in accordance with payment terms customary to the business, except sales we finance for which payments are collected over the contractual loan term. We also recognize a sales return reserve based on historical experience plus consideration for expected future market values, when we offer resale value guarantees or similar buyback terms. Other features and services such as access to our internet connectivity, unlimited free Supercharging and over-the-air software updates are provisioned upon control transfer of a vehicle and recognized over time on a straight-line basis as we have a stand-ready obligation to deliver such services to the customer. Other limited free Supercharging incentives are recognized based on actual usage or expiration, whichever is earlier. We recognize revenue related to these other features and services over the performance period, which is generally the expected ownership life of the vehicle. Revenue related to FSD Capability features is recognized when functionality is delivered to the customer and their ongoing maintenance is recognized over time. For our obligations related to automotive sales, we estimate standalone selling price by considering costs used to develop and deliver the service, third-party pricing of similar options and other information that may be available.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is computed using standard cost for vehicles and energy products, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. We record inventory write-downs for excess or obsolete inventories based upon assumptions about current and future demand forecasts. If our inventory on-hand is in excess of our future demand forecast, the excess amounts are written-off.
We also review our inventory to determine whether its carrying value exceeds the net amount realizable upon the ultimate sale of the inventory. This requires us to determine the estimated selling price of our vehicles less the estimated cost to convert the inventory on-hand into a finished product. Once inventory is written-down, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.
Should our estimates of future selling prices or production costs change, additional and potentially material write-downs may be required. A small change in our estimates may result in a material charge to our reported financial results.
Warranties
We provide a manufacturer’s warranty on all new and used vehicles and a warranty on the installation and components of the energy generation and storage systems we sell for periods typically between 10 to 25 years. We accrue a warranty reserve for the products sold by us, which includes our best estimate of the projected costs to repair or replace items under warranties and recalls if identified. These estimates are based on actual claims incurred to date and an estimate of the nature, frequency and costs of future claims. These estimates are inherently uncertain and changes to our historical or projected warranty experience may cause material changes to the warranty reserve in the future. The warranty reserve does not include projected warranty costs associated with our vehicles subject to operating lease accounting and our solar energy systems under lease contracts or PPAs, as the costs to repair these warranty claims are expensed as incurred. The portion of the warranty reserve expected to be incurred within the next 12 months is included within Accrued liabilities and other, while the remaining balance is included within Other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. For liabilities that we are entitled to receive indemnification from our suppliers, we record receivables for the contractually obligated amounts on the consolidated balance sheets as a component of Prepaid expenses and other current assets for the current portion and as Other non-current assets for the long-term portion. Warranty expense is recorded as a component of Cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of operations. Due to the magnitude of our automotive business, our accrued warranty balance is primarily related to our automotive segment.
Stock-Based Compensation
We use the fair value method of accounting for our stock options and restricted stock units (“RSUs”) granted to employees and for our employee stock purchase plan (the “ESPP”) to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for the stock-based awards. The fair value of stock option awards with only service and/or performance conditions is estimated on the grant or offering date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected term and expected volatility. These inputs are subjective and generally require significant judgment. The fair value of RSUs is measured on the grant date based on the closing fair market value of our common stock. The resulting cost is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the awards, usually the vesting period, which is generally four years for stock options and RSUs and six months for the ESPP. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis, net of actual forfeitures in the period.
For performance-based awards, stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the expected performance achievement period of individual performance milestones when the achievement of each individual performance milestone becomes probable. 
As we accumulate additional employee stock-based awards data over time and as we incorporate market data related to our common stock, we may calculate significantly different volatilities and expected lives, which could materially impact the valuation of our stock-based awards and the stock-based compensation expense that we will recognize in future periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in Cost of revenues, Research and development expense and Selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets that are not more likely than not to be realized. We monitor the realizability of our deferred tax assets taking into account all relevant factors at each reporting period. In completing our assessment of realizability of our deferred tax assets, we consider our history of income (loss) measured at pre-tax income (loss) adjusted for permanent book-tax differences on a jurisdictional basis, volatility in actual earnings, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation in recent prior years, and impacts of the timing of reversal of existing temporary differences. We also rely on our assessment of the Company’s projected future results of business operations, including uncertainty in future operating results relative to historical results, volatility in the market price of our common stock and its performance over time, variable macroeconomic conditions impacting our ability to forecast future taxable income, and changes in business that may affect the existence and magnitude of future taxable income. Our valuation allowance assessment is based on our best estimate of future results considering all available information.
Furthermore, significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax settlement is uncertain. As a result, we recognize the effect of this uncertainty on our tax attributes or taxes payable based on our estimates of the eventual outcome. These effects are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are supportable, we believe that it is more likely than not that some of those positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We are required to file income tax returns in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, which requires us to interpret the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in such jurisdictions. Such returns are subject to audit by the various federal, state and foreign taxing authorities, who may disagree with respect to our tax positions. We believe that our consideration is adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. We review and update our estimates in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the lapse of a statute of limitations or a change in estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters differs from our expectations, such differences may impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. 
Results of Operations
Revenues

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 2023 vs. 2022 Change | | 2022 vs. 2021 Change
(Dollars in millions) | 2023 | | 2022 | | 2021 | | $ | % | | $ | % 
Automotive sales | $ | 78,509 | | | $ | 67,210 | | $ | 44,125 | | $ | 11,299 | | 17 | % | | $ | 23,085 | 52 | %
Automotive regulatory credits | 1,790 | | | 1,776 | | | 1,465 | | 14 | | 1 | % | 311 | | | 21 | %
Automotive leasing | 2,120 | | | 2,476 | | | 1,642 | | (356) | | (14) | % | 834 | | | 51 | %
Total automotive revenues | 82,419 | | | 71,462 | | | 47,232 | | 10,957 | | 15 | % | 24,230 | | | 51 | %
Services and other | 8,319 | | | 6,091 | | | 3,802 | | 2,228 | | 37 | % | 2,289 | | | 60 | %
Total automotive & services and other segment revenue | 90,738 | | | 77,553 | | | 51,034 | | 13,185 | | 17 | % | 26,519 | | | 52 | %
Energy generation and storage segment revenue | 6,035 | | | 3,909 | | | 2,789 | | 2,126 | | 54 | % | 1,120 | | | 40 | %
Total revenues | $ | 96,773 | | | $ | 81,462 | | $ | 53,823 | | $ | 15,311 | | 19 | % | | $ | 27,639 | 51 | %

Automotive & Services and Other Segment
Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to cash and financing deliveries of new Model S, Model X, Semi, Model 3, Model Y, and Cybertruck vehicles, including access to our FSD Capability features and their ongoing maintenance, internet connectivity, free Supercharging programs and over-the-air software updates. These deliveries are vehicles that are not subject to lease accounting. 
Automotive regulatory credits includes sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers. Our revenue from automotive regulatory credits is directly related to our new vehicle production, sales and pricing negotiated with our customers. We monetize them proactively as new vehicles are sold based on standing arrangements with buyers of such credits, typically as close as possible to the production and delivery of the vehicle or changes in regulation impacting the credits. 
Automotive leasing revenue includes the amortization of revenue for vehicles under direct operating lease agreements. Additionally, automotive leasing revenue includes direct sales-type leasing programs where we recognize all revenue associated with the sales-type lease upon delivery to the customer.
Services and other revenue consists of sales of used vehicles, non-warranty after-sales vehicle services, body shop and parts, paid Supercharging, vehicle insurance revenue and retail merchandise.
2023 compared to 2022
Automotive sales revenue increased $11.30 billion, or 17%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to an increase of 473,382 combined Model 3 and Model Y cash deliveries from production ramping of Model Y globally. The increase was partially offset by a lower average selling price on our vehicles driven by overall price reductions year over year, sales mix, and a negative impact from the United States dollar strengthening against other foreign currencies in the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year.
Automotive regulatory credits revenue increased $14 million, or 1%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022.
Automotive leasing revenue decreased $356 million, or 14%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in direct sales-type leasing revenue driven by lower deliveries year over year, partially offset by an increase from our growing direct operating lease portfolio.
Services and other revenue increased $2.23 billion, or 37%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher used vehicle revenue driven by increases in volume, body shop and part sales revenue, non-warranty maintenance services revenue, paid Supercharging revenue and insurance services revenue, all of which are primarily attributable to our growing fleet. The increases were partially offset by a decrease in the average selling price of used vehicles.
Energy Generation and Storage Segment
Energy generation and storage revenue includes sales and leasing of solar energy generation and energy storage products, financing of solar energy generation products, services related to such products and sales of solar energy systems incentives.
2023 compared to 2022
Energy generation and storage revenue increased $2.13 billion, or 54%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase in deployments of Megapack.
Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 2023 vs. 2022 Change | | 2022 vs. 2021 Change
(Dollars in millions) | 2023 | | 2022 | | 2021 | | $ | | % | | $ | % 
Cost of revenues | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Automotive sales | $ | 65,121 | | | $ | 49,599 | | | $ | 32,415 | | $ | 15,522 | | 31 | % | | $ | 17,184 | 53 | %
Automotive leasing | 1,268 | | | 1,509 | | | 978 | | | (241) | | (16) | % | 531 | | | 54 | %
Total automotive cost of revenues | 66,389 | | | 51,108 | | | 33,393 | | | 15,281 | | 30 | % | 17,715 | | | 53 | %
Services and other | 7,830 | | | 5,880 | | | 3,906 | | | 1,950 | | 33 | % | 1,974 | | | 51 | %
Total automotive & services and other segment cost of revenues | 74,219 | | | 56,988 | | | 37,299 | | | 17,231 | | 30 | % | 19,689 | | | 53 | %
Energy generation and storage segment | 4,894 | | | 3,621 | | | 2,918 | | | 1,273 | | 35 | % | 703 | | | 24 | %
Total cost of revenues | $ | 79,113 | | | $ | 60,609 | | | $ | 40,217 | | $ | 18,504 | | 31 | % | | $ | 20,392 | 51 | %
Gross profit total automotive | $ | 16,030 | | | $ | 20,354 | | | $ | 13,839 | | | | | | | 
Gross margin total automotive | 19.4 | % | | 28.5 | % | | 29.3 | % | | | | | | 
Gross profit total automotive & services and other segment | $ | 16,519 | | | $ | 20,565 | | | $ | 13,735 | | | | | | | 
Gross margin total automotive & services and other segment | 18.2 | % | | 26.5 | % | | 26.9 | % | | | | | | 
Gross profit energy generation and storage segment | $ | 1,141 | | | $ | 288 | | | $ | (129) | | | | | | | 
Gross margin energy generation and storage segment | 18.9 | % | | 7.4 | % | | (4.6) | % | | | | | | 
Total gross profit | $ | 17,660 | | | $ | 20,853 | | | $ | 13,606 | | | | | | | 
Total gross margin | 18.2 | % | | 25.6 | % | | 25.3 | % | | | | | | 

Automotive & Services and Other Segment
Cost of automotive sales revenue includes direct and indirect materials, labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and machinery, shipping and logistic costs, vehicle connectivity costs, FSD ongoing maintenance costs, allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our Supercharger network and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Cost of automotive sales revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Additionally, cost of automotive sales revenue benefits from manufacturing credits earned.
Cost of automotive leasing revenue includes the depreciation of operating lease vehicles, cost of goods sold associated with direct sales-type leases and warranty expense related to leased vehicles. 
Costs of services and other revenue includes cost of used vehicles including refurbishment costs, costs associated with providing non-warranty after-sales services, costs associated with our body shops and part sales, costs of paid Supercharging, costs to provide vehicle insurance and costs for retail merchandise.
2023 compared to 2022
Cost of automotive sales revenue increased $15.52 billion, or 31%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Cost of automotive sales revenue increased in line with the change in deliveries year over year, as discussed above. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in the average combined cost per unit of our vehicles primarily due to sales mix, lower inbound freight, a decrease in material costs and lower manufacturing costs from better fixed cost absorption. Our costs of revenue were also positively impacted by the United States dollar strengthening against our foreign currencies as compared to the prior periods and by the IRA manufacturing credits earned during the current year. 
Cost of automotive leasing revenue decreased $241 million, or 16%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in direct sales-type leasing cost of revenue driven by lower deliveries year over year.
Cost of services and other revenue increased $1.95 billion, or 33%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was generally in line with the changes in services and other revenue as discussed above.
Gross margin for total automotive decreased from 28.5% to 19.4% in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a lower average selling price on our vehicles partially offset by the favorable change in our average combined cost per unit of our vehicles and IRA manufacturing credits earned as discussed above.
Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment decreased from 26.5% to 18.2% in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to the automotive gross margin decrease discussed above.
Energy Generation and Storage Segment
Cost of energy generation and storage revenue includes direct and indirect material and labor costs, warehouse rent, freight, warranty expense, other overhead costs and amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. Cost of energy generation and storage revenue also includes charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Additionally, cost of energy generation and storage revenue benefits from manufacturing credits earned. In agreements for solar energy systems and PPAs where we are the lessor, the cost of revenue is primarily comprised of depreciation of the cost of leased solar energy systems, maintenance costs associated with those systems and amortization of any initial direct costs.
2023 compared to 2022
Cost of energy generation and storage revenue increased $1.27 billion, or 35%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, in line with the increase in Megapack deployments year over year, as discussed above. This increase was partially offset by an improvement in production ramping that drove down the average cost per MWh of Megapack as well as IRA manufacturing credits earned during the current year.
Gross margin for energy generation and storage increased from 7.4% to 18.9% in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was driven by an improvement in our Megapack gross margin from lower average cost per MWh and a higher proportion of Megapack, which operated at a higher gross margin, within the segment as compared to the prior year periods. Additionally, there was a margin benefit from IRA manufacturing credits earned.
Research and Development Expense

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 2023 vs. 2022 Change | | 2022 vs. 2021 Change
(Dollars in millions) | 2023 | | 2022 | | 2021 | | $ | | % | | $ | %
Research and development | $ | 3,969 | | | $ | 3,075 | | | $ | 2,593 | | $ | 894 | 29 | % | $ | 482 | 19 | %
As a percentage of revenues | 4 | % | | 4 | % | | 5 | % | | | | | 

Research and development (“R&D”) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, manufacturing engineering and manufacturing test organizations, prototyping expense, contract and professional services and amortized equipment expense.
R&D expenses increased $894 million, or 29%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The overall increase was primarily driven by additional costs in the current year related to the pre-production phase for Cybertruck, AI and other programs.
R&D expenses as a percentage of revenue stayed consistent at 4% in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Our R&D expenses have increased proportionately with total revenues as we continue to expand our product roadmap and technologies.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 2023 vs. 2022 Change | | 2022 vs. 2021 Change
(Dollars in millions) | 2023 | | 2022 | | 2021 | | $ | | % | | $ | %
Selling, general and administrative | $ | 4,800 | | | $ | 3,946 | | | $ | 4,517 | | $ | 854 | 22 | % | $ | (571) | (13) | %
As a percentage of revenues | 5 | % | | 5 | % | | 8 | % | | | | | 

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses generally consist of personnel and facilities costs related to our stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as fees for professional and contract services and litigation settlements.
SG&A expenses increased $854 million, or 22%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. This was driven by a $447 million increase in employee and labor costs primarily from increased headcount, including professional services and a $363 million increase in facilities related expenses.
Restructuring and Other

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 2023 vs. 2022 Change | 2022 vs. 2021 Change
(Dollars in millions) | 2023 | | 2022 | 2021 | | $ | % | | $ | %
Restructuring and other | $ | — | | $ | 176 | | $ | (27) | | $ | (176) | (100)% | $ | 203 | Not meaningful

During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded an impairment loss of $204 million as well as realized gains of $64 million in connection with converting our holdings of digital assets into fiat currency. We also recorded other expenses of $36 million during the second quarter of the year ended December 31, 2022, related to employee terminations.
Interest Income

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 2023 vs. 2022 Change | 2022 vs. 2021 Change
(Dollars in millions) | 2023 | | 2022 | 2021 | | $ | % | | $ | %
Interest income | $ | 1,066 | | $ | 297 | | $ | 56 | | $ | 769 | 259 | % | $ | 241 | 430 | %

Interest income increased $769 million, or 259%, in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. This increase was primarily due to higher interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the prior year due to rising interest rates and our increasing portfolio balance.
Other Income (Expense), Net

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 2023 vs. 2022 Change | 2022 vs. 2021 Change
(Dollars in millions) | 2023 | | 2022 | 2021 | | $ | % | | $ | %
Other income (expense), net | $ | 172 | | $ | (43) | | $ | 135 | | $ | 215 | Not meaningful | $ | (178) | Not meaningful

Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities. We expect our foreign exchange gains and losses will vary depending upon movements in the underlying exchange rates.
Other income, net, changed favorably by $215 million in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. The favorable change was primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our intercompany balances.
(Benefit from) Provision for Income Taxes

 | Year Ended December 31, | | 2023 vs. 2022 Change | | 2022 vs. 2021 Change
(Dollars in millions) | 2023 | | 2022 | | 2021 | | $ | | % | | $ | %
(Benefit from) provision for income taxes | $ | (5,001) | | | $ | 1,132 | | | $ | 699 | | $ | (6,133) | Not meaningful | $ | 433 | 62 | %
Effective tax rate | (50) | % | | 8 | % | | 11 | % | | | | | 

We monitor the realizability of our deferred tax assets taking into account all relevant factors at each reporting period. As of December 31, 2023, based on the relevant weight of positive and negative evidence, including the amount of our taxable income in recent years which is objective and verifiable, and consideration of our expected future taxable earnings, we concluded that it is more likely than not that our U.S. federal and certain state deferred tax assets are realizable. As such, we released $6.54 billion of our valuation allowance associated with the U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets, with the exception of our California deferred tax assets. Approximately $5.93 billion of the total valuation allowance release was related to deferred tax assets to be realized in the future years and the remainder benefited us during the year ended December 31, 2023. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our California deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2023, because we concluded they are not more likely than not to be realized as we expect our California deferred tax assets generation in future years to exceed our ability to use these deferred tax assets.
Our (benefit from) provision for income taxes changed by $6.13 billion in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to the release of $6.54 billion of our valuation allowance associated with the U.S. federal and certain state deferred tax assets.
Our effective tax rate changed from an expense of 8% to a benefit of 50% in the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to the release of the valuation allowance regarding our U.S. federal and certain state deferred tax assets.
See Note 14, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We expect to continue to generate net positive operating cash flow as we have done in the last five fiscal years. The cash we generate from our core operations enables us to fund ongoing operations and production, our research and development projects for new products and technologies including our proprietary battery cells, additional manufacturing ramps at existing manufacturing facilities, the construction of future factories, and the continued expansion of our retail and service locations, body shops, Mobile Service fleet, Supercharger, including to support NACS, energy product installation capabilities and autonomy and other artificial intelligence enabled products.
In addition, because a large portion of our future expenditures will be to fund our growth, we expect that if needed we will be able to adjust our capital and operating expenditures by operating segment. For example, if our near-term manufacturing operations decrease in scale or ramp more slowly than expected, including due to global economic or business conditions, we may choose to correspondingly slow the pace of our capital expenditures. Finally, we continually evaluate our cash needs and may decide it is best to raise additional capital or seek alternative financing sources to fund the rapid growth of our business, including through drawdowns on existing or new debt facilities or financing funds. Conversely, we may also from time to time determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily repay certain indebtedness early.
Accordingly, we believe that our current sources of funds will provide us with adequate liquidity during the 12-month period following December 31, 2023, as well as in the long-term.
See the sections below for more details regarding the material requirements for cash in our business and our sources of liquidity to meet such needs.
Material Cash Requirements
From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements with vendors for the purchase of components and raw materials to be used in the manufacture of our products. However, due to contractual terms, variability in the precise growth curves of our development and production ramps, and opportunities to renegotiate pricing, we generally do not have binding and enforceable purchase orders under such contracts beyond the short-term, and the timing and magnitude of purchase orders beyond such period is difficult to accurately project.
As discussed in and subject to the considerations referenced in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management Opportunities, Challenges and Uncertainties and 2023 Outlook—Cash Flow and Capital Expenditure Trends in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we currently expect our capital expenditures to support our projects globally to exceed $10.00 billion in 2024 and be between $8.00 to $10.00 billion in each of the following two fiscal years. In connection with our operations at Gigafactory New York, we have an agreement to spend or incur $5.00 billion in combined capital, operational expenses, costs of goods sold and other costs in the State of New York through December 31, 2029 (pursuant to a deferral of our required timelines to meet such obligations that was granted in April 2021, and which was memorialized in an amendment to our agreement with the SUNY Foundation in August 2021). For details regarding these obligations, refer to Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As of December 31, 2023, we and our subsidiaries had outstanding $4.68 billion in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, of which $1.98 billion is scheduled to become due in the succeeding 12 months. As of December 31, 2023, our total minimum lease payments was $5.96 billion, of which $1.31 billion is due in the succeeding 12 months. For details regarding our indebtedness and lease obligations, refer to Note 11, Debt, and Note 12, Leases, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Sources and Conditions of Liquidity
Our sources to fund our material cash requirements are predominantly from our deliveries and servicing of new and used vehicles, sales and installations of our energy storage products and solar energy systems, proceeds from debt facilities and proceeds from equity offerings, when applicable. 
As of December 31, 2023, we had $16.40 billion and $12.70 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, respectively. Balances held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $4.43 billion and consisted primarily of Chinese yuan and euros. We had $5.03 billion of unused committed credit amounts as of December 31, 2023. For details regarding our indebtedness, refer to Note 11, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We continue adapting our strategy to meet our liquidity and risk objectives, such as investing in U.S. government securities and other investments, to do more vertical integration, expand our product roadmap and provide financing options to our customers.
Summary of Cash Flows

 | Year Ended December 31,
(Dollars in millions) | 2023 | | 2022 | 2021
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 13,256 | | $ | 14,724 | $ | 11,497 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (15,584) | | $ | (11,973) | $ | (7,868)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities | $ | 2,589 | | $ | (3,527) | $ | (5,203)

Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative and working capital. Our operating cash inflows include cash from vehicle sales and related servicing, customer lease and financing payments, customer deposits, cash from sales of regulatory credits and energy generation and storage products, and interest income on our cash and investments portfolio. These cash inflows are offset by our payments to suppliers for production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, operating expenses, operating lease payments and interest payments on our financings.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $1.47 billion to $13.26 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023 from $14.72 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. This decrease was primarily due to the decrease in net income excluding non-cash expenses, gains and losses of $2.93 billion, partially offset by favorable changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $1.46 billion.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Cash flows from investing activities and their variability across each period related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $8.90 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 and $7.16 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, mainly for global factory expansion and machinery and equipment as we expand our product roadmap. We also purchased $6.62 billion and $5.81 billion of investments, net of proceeds from maturities and sales, for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Additionally, proceeds from sales of digital assets was $936 million in the year ended December 31, 2022.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash from financing activities changed by $6.12 billion to $2.59 billion net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2023 from $3.53 billion net cash used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022. The change was primarily due to a $3.93 billion increase in proceeds from issuances of debt and a $2.01 billion decrease in repayments of debt. See Note 11, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details regarding our debt obligations.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Overview
Our mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy. We design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also offer maintenance, installation, operation, charging, insurance, financial and other services related to our products. Additionally, we are increasingly focused on products and services based on AI, robotics and automation.
In 2024, we produced approximately 433,000 consumer vehicles and delivered approximately 387,000 consumer vehicles through the first quarter. We are focused on profitable growth, including by leveraging existing factories and production lines to introduce new and more affordable products, increasing vehicle production, utilized capacity and delivery capabilities, reducing costs, improving and developing our vehicles and battery technologies, vertically integrating and localizing our supply chain, further improving and deploying our FSD capabilities, including through our planned robotaxi product, and expanding our global infrastructure, including our service and charging infrastructure.
In 2024, we deployed 4.05 GWh of energy storage products through the first quarter. We are focused on ramping the production and increasing the market penetration of our energy storage products.
During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recognized total revenues of $21.30 billion, representing a decrease of $2.03 billion, compared to the prior year. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, our net income attributable to common stockholders was $1.13 billion, representing an unfavorable change of $1.38 billion, compared to the same period in the prior year. We continue to ramp production and build and optimize our manufacturing capacity, expand our operations while focusing on further cost reductions and operational efficiencies to enable increased deliveries and deployments of our products, and invest in research and development to accelerate our AI, software, and fleet-based profits for further revenue growth.
We ended the first quarter of 2024 with $26.86 billion in cash and cash equivalents and investments, representing a decrease of $2.23 billion from the end of 2023. Our cash flows provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 were $242 million and $2.51 billion, respectively, representing a decrease of $2.27 billion. Capital expenditures amounted to $2.77 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to $2.07 billion during the same period ended March 31, 2023, representing an increase of $701 million. Overall growth has allowed our business to generally fund itself, and we will continue investing in a number of capital-intensive projects and research and development in upcoming periods.
Management Opportunities, Challenges and Uncertainties and 2024 Outlook
Automotive—Production 
The following is a summary of the status of production of each of our announced vehicle models in production and under development, as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q:

Production Location | Vehicle Model(s) | Production Status
Fremont Factory | Model S / Model X | Active 
 | Model 3 / Model Y | Active 
Gigafactory Shanghai | Model 3 / Model Y | Active 
Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg | Model Y | Active 
Gigafactory Texas | Model Y | Active 
 | Cybertruck | Active 
Gigafactory Nevada | Tesla Semi | Pilot production 
Various | Next Generation Platform | In development 
TBD | Roadster | In development 

We are focused on growing our manufacturing capacity, which includes capacity for manufacturing new vehicle models such as our Cybertruck and future vehicles utilizing aspects of our next generation platform, and ramping the production at our Gigafactories to their installed production capacities as well as increasing production rate and efficiency at our current factories. The next phase of production growth will depend on the continued ramp at our factories and be initiated by advances in autonomy and the introduction of new products, including those built on our next generation vehicle platform, as well as our ability to add to our available sources of battery cell supply by manufacturing our own cells that we are developing to have high-volume output, lower capital and production costs and longer range. Our goals are to improve vehicle performance, decrease production costs and increase affordability and customer awareness. 
These plans are subject to uncertainties inherent in establishing and ramping manufacturing operations, which may be exacerbated by new product and manufacturing technologies we introduce, the number of concurrent international projects, any industry-wide component constraints, labor shortages and any future impact from events outside of our control. For example, during the first quarter of 2024, we experienced a sequential decline in production volumes partially caused by the early phase of the production ramp of the updated Model 3 at our Fremont factory, and factory shutdowns at Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg resulting from shipping diversions caused by the Red Sea conflict and an arson attack. Moreover, we have set ambitious technological targets with our plans for battery cells as well as for iterative manufacturing and design improvements for our vehicles with each new factory.
Automotive—Demand, Sales, Deliveries and Infrastructure
Our cost reduction efforts, cost innovation strategies, and additional localized procurement and manufacturing are key to our vehicles’ affordability and have allowed us to competitively price our vehicles. We will also continue to generate demand by improving our vehicles’ performance and functionality, including through product offerings and features based on artificial intelligence such as Autopilot, FSD (Supervised), and other software, and delivering new vehicles, such as our Cybertruck. In addition, we have been increasing awareness, and expanding our vehicle financing programs, including attractive leasing terms for our customers. Moreover, we expect to continue to benefit from ongoing electrification of the automotive sector and increasing environmental regulations and initiatives. 
However, we operate in a cyclical industry that is sensitive to political and regulatory uncertainty, including with respect to trade and the environment, all of which can be compounded by inflationary pressures, rising energy prices, interest rate fluctuations and the liquidity of enterprise customers. For example, inflationary pressures have increased across the markets in which we operate. In an effort to curb this trend, central banks in developed countries raised interest rates rapidly and substantially, impacting the affordability of vehicle lease and finance arrangements. Further, sales of vehicles in the automotive industry also tend to be cyclical in many markets, which may expose us to increased volatility as we expand and adjust our operations. Moreover, as additional competitors enter the marketplace and help bring the world closer to sustainable transportation, we will have to adjust and continue to execute well to maintain our momentum. Additionally, our suppliers’ liquidity and allocation plans may be affected by current challenges in the North American automotive industry, which could reduce our access to components or result in unfavorable changes to cost. These macroeconomic and industry trends have had, and will likely continue to have, an impact on the pricing of, and order rate for our vehicles, and in turn our operating margin. Changes in government and economic incentives in relation to electric vehicles may also impact our sales. We will continue to adjust accordingly to such developments, and we believe our ongoing cost reduction, including improved production innovation and efficiency at our newest factories and lower logistics costs, and focus on operating leverage will continue to benefit us in relation to our competitors, while our new products will help enable future growth.
As our production increases, we must work constantly to similarly increase vehicle delivery capability so that it does not become a bottleneck on our total deliveries. We are also committed to reducing the percentage of vehicles delivered in the third month of each quarter, which will help to reduce the cost per vehicle. As we expand our manufacturing operations globally, we will also have to continue to increase and staff our delivery, servicing and charging infrastructure accordingly, maintain our vehicle reliability and optimize our Supercharger locations to ensure cost effectiveness and customer satisfaction. In particular, as other automotive manufacturers have announced their adoption of the North American Charging Standard (“NACS”) and agreements with us to utilize our Superchargers, we must correspondingly expand our network in order to ensure adequate availability to meet customer demands. We also remain focused on continued enhancements of the capability and efficiency of our servicing operations.
Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment
The long-term success of this business is dependent upon incremental volume growth. We continue to increase the production of our energy storage products to meet high levels of demand, including the construction of a new Megafactory in Shanghai and the ongoing ramp at our Megafactory in Lathrop, California. For Megapack, energy storage deployments can vary meaningfully quarter to quarter depending on the timing of specific project milestones. As these product lines grow, we will have to maintain adequate battery cell supply for our energy storage products. 
Cash Flow and Capital Expenditure Trends 
Our capital expenditures are typically difficult to project beyond the short-term given the number and breadth of our core projects at any given time, and may further be impacted by uncertainties in future global market conditions. We are simultaneously developing and ramping new products, building or ramping manufacturing facilities on three continents, piloting the development and manufacture of new battery cell technologies, expanding our Supercharger network and investing in autonomy and other artificial intelligence enabled training and products, and the pace of our capital spend may vary depending on overall priority among projects, the pace at which we meet milestones, production adjustments to and among our various products, increased capital efficiencies and the addition of new projects. Owing and subject to the foregoing as well as the pipeline of announced projects under development, all other continuing infrastructure growth and varying levels of inflation, we currently expect our capital expenditures to exceed $10.00 billion in 2024 and be between $8.00 to $10.00 billion in each of the following two fiscal years.
Our business has generally been consistently generating cash flow from operations in excess of our level of capital spend, and with better working capital management resulting in shorter days sales outstanding than days payable outstanding, our sales growth is also generally facilitating positive cash generation. We have and will continue to utilize such cash flows, among other things, to do more vertical integration, expand our product roadmap, invest in autonomy and provide financing options to our customers. At the same time, we are likely to see heightened levels of capital expenditures during certain periods depending on the specific pace of our capital-intensive projects and other potential variables such as rising material prices and increases in supply chain and labor expenses resulting from changes in global trade conditions and labor availability. Overall, we expect our ability to be self-funding to continue as long as macroeconomic factors support current trends in our sales.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Part II, Item 7, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Results of Operations
Revenues

 | Three Months Ended March 31, | Change | | | | 
(Dollars in millions) | 2024 | | 2023 | | $ | | % | | | | | 
Automotive sales | $ | 16,460 | | | $ | 18,878 | | $ | (2,418) | | (13) | %
Automotive regulatory credits | 442 | | | 521 | | | (79) | | (15) | % | | 
Automotive leasing | 476 | | | 564 | | | (88) | | (16) | % | | 
Total automotive revenues | 17,378 | | | 19,963 | | | (2,585) | | (13) | % | | 
Services and other | 2,288 | | | 1,837 | | | 451 | | 25 | % | | 
Total automotive & services and other segment revenue | 19,666 | | | 21,800 | | | (2,134) | | (10) | % | | 
Energy generation and storage segment revenue | 1,635 | | | 1,529 | | | 106 | | 7 | % | | 
Total revenues | $ | 21,301 | | | $ | 23,329 | | $ | (2,028) | | (9) | %

Automotive & Services and Other Segment
Automotive sales revenue decreased $2.42 billion, or 13%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to lower average selling price on our vehicles driven by overall price reductions year over year. Additionally, there was a decrease of approximately 27,000 combined Model 3 and Model Y cash deliveries partially due to the early phase of the production ramp of the updated Model 3 at our Fremont factory and factory shutdowns resulting from shipping diversions caused by the Red Sea conflict and an arson attack at Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg. The decreases were partially offset by an increase of approximately 7,000 deliveries of other models as we ramped our production of Cybertruck.
Automotive regulatory credits revenue decreased $79 million, or 15%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023.
Automotive leasing revenue decreased $88 million, or 16%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in direct sales-type leasing revenue driven by lower deliveries year over year.
Services and other revenue increased $451 million, or 25%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to increases in non-warranty maintenance services and collision revenue, insurance services revenue, paid Supercharging revenue and part sales revenue. Additionally, there was higher used vehicle revenue driven by increases in volume partially offset by a decrease in average selling price of used vehicles. 
Energy Generation and Storage Segment
Energy generation and storage revenue increased $106 million, or 7%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to an increase in average selling price of Megapack partially offset by a decrease in solar deployments.
Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin

 | Three Months Ended March 31, | | Change | | | | 
(Dollars in millions) | 2024 | | 2023 | | $ | | % | | | | | 
Cost of revenues | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Automotive sales | $ | 13,897 | | | $ | 15,422 | | $ | (1,525) | | (10) | %
Automotive leasing | 269 | | | 333 | | | (64) | | (19) | % | | 
Total automotive cost of revenues | 14,166 | | | 15,755 | | | (1,589) | | (10) | % | | 
Services and other | 2,207 | | | 1,702 | | | 505 | | 30 | % | | 
Total automotive & services and other segment cost of revenues | 16,373 | | | 17,457 | | | (1,084) | | (6) | % | | 
Energy generation and storage segment | 1,232 | | | 1,361 | | | (129) | | (9) | % | | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 17,605 | | | $ | 18,818 | | $ | (1,213) | | (6) | %
Gross profit total automotive | $ | 3,212 | | | $ | 4,208 | | | | | | 
Gross margin total automotive | 18.5 | % | | 21.1 | % | | | | | | | 
Gross profit total automotive & services and other segment | $ | 3,293 | | | $ | 4,343 | | | | | | 
Gross margin total automotive & services and other segment | 16.7 | % | | 19.9 | % | | | | | | | 
Gross profit energy generation and storage segment | $ | 403 | | | $ | 168 | | | | | | 
Gross margin energy generation and storage segment | 24.6 | % | | 11.0 | % | | | | | | | 
Total gross profit | $ | 3,696 | | | $ | 4,511 | | | | | | 
Total gross margin | 17.4 | % | | 19.3 | % | | | | | | | 

Automotive & Services and Other Segment
Cost of automotive sales revenue decreased $1.53 billion, or 10%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Cost of automotive sales revenue decreased due to a decrease in the average combined cost per unit of our vehicles primarily from lower raw material costs, freight and duties in addition to the changes in deliveries year over year as discussed. Additionally, there were higher costs for Cybertruck and the updated Model 3 at our Fremont factory as a result of the temporary under-utilization of manufacturing capacity as production ramps.
Cost of automotive leasing revenue decreased $64 million, or 19%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in direct sales-type leasing cost of revenue driven by lower deliveries year over year.
Cost of services and other revenue increased $505 million, or 30%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was generally in line with the changes in services and other revenue as discussed above.
Gross margin for total automotive decreased from 21.1% to 18.5% in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was driven by the changes in automotive sales revenue and cost of revenue as well as a decrease in regulatory credits revenue, as discussed above.
Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment decreased from 19.9% to 16.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to the automotive gross margin decrease discussed above.
Energy Generation and Storage Segment
Cost of energy generation and storage revenue decreased $129 million, or 9%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease was due to an increase in IRA manufacturing credits recognized year over year. 
Gross margin for energy generation and storage increased from 11.0% to 24.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was driven by the changes in energy generation and storage revenue and cost of revenue as discussed above.
Research and Development Expense

 | Three Months Ended March 31, | Change | | | | 
(Dollars in millions) | 2024 | | 2023 | | $ | | % | | | | 
Research and development | $ | 1,151 | | | $ | 771 | | $ | 380 | 49 | %
As a percentage of revenues | 5 | % | | 3 | % | | | | | | 

Research and development (“R&D”) expenses increased $380 million, or 49%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The overall increase was primarily driven by additional costs year over year related to AI, advancement of our proprietary battery cell technologies and other programs.
R&D expenses as a percentage of revenue increased from 3% to 5% in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 as we continue to expand our product roadmap and technologies.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense

 | Three Months Ended March 31, | | Change | | | | 
(Dollars in millions) | 2024 | | 2023 | | $ | | % | | | | 
Selling, general and administrative | $ | 1,374 | | | $ | 1,076 | | $ | 298 | 28 | %
As a percentage of revenues | 6 | % | | 5 | % | | | | | | 

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased $298 million, or 28%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. This was driven by a $176 million increase in employee and labor costs primarily from increased headcount, including professional services, a $62 million increase in facilities related expenses and a $41 million increase in promotions, advertising and other marketing expenses.
Interest Income

 | Three Months Ended March 31, | | Change | | | 
(Dollars in millions) | 2024 | | 2023 | $ | | % | | | | 
Interest income | $ | 350 | | $ | 213 | | $ | 137 | 64 | %

Interest income increased $137 million, or 64%, in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. This increase was primarily due to higher interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the prior period due to rising interest rates and our increasing portfolio balance.
Other Income (Expense), Net

 | Three Months Ended March 31, | | Change | | | 
(Dollars in millions) | 2024 | | 2023 | $ | | % | | | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 108 | | $ | (48) | | $ | 156 | Not meaningful

Other income (expense), net, changed favorably by $156 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The favorable change was primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our intercompany balances. As our intercompany balances are significant in nature and as we do not typically hedge foreign currency risk, we can experience significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rate gains and losses from period to period.
Provision for Income Taxes

 | Three Months Ended March 31, | | Change | | | | 
(Dollars in millions) | 2024 | | 2023 | | $ | | % | | | 
Provision for income taxes | $ | 409 | | | $ | 261 | | $ | 148 | 57%
Effective tax rate | 26 | % | | 9 | % | | | | | 

Our provision for income taxes increased by $148 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our effective tax rate increased from 9% to 26% in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the prior period. These increases are primarily due to the impact of releasing the valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2023 and changes in mix of jurisdictional earnings.
See Note 9, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We expect to continue to generate net positive operating cash flow as we have done in the last five fiscal years. The cash we generate from our core operations enables us to fund ongoing operations and production, our research and development projects for new products and technologies including our proprietary battery cells, additional manufacturing ramps at existing manufacturing facilities, the construction of future factories, and the continued expansion of our retail and service locations, body shops, Mobile Service fleet, Supercharger, including to support NACS, energy product installation capabilities and autonomy and other artificial intelligence enabled products.
In addition, because a large portion of our future expenditures will be to fund our growth, we expect that if needed we will be able to adjust our capital and operating expenditures by operating segment. For example, if our near-term manufacturing operations decrease in scale or ramp more slowly than expected, including due to global economic or business conditions, we may choose to correspondingly slow the pace of our capital expenditures. Finally, we continually evaluate our cash needs and may decide it is best to raise additional capital or seek alternative financing sources to fund the rapid growth of our business, including through drawdowns on existing or new debt facilities or financing funds. Conversely, we may also from time to time determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily repay certain indebtedness early.
Accordingly, we believe that our current sources of funds will provide us with adequate liquidity during the 12-month period following March 31, 2024, as well as in the long-term.
See the sections below for more details regarding the material requirements for cash in our business and our sources of liquidity to meet such needs.
Material Cash Requirements
From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements with vendors for the purchase of components and raw materials to be used in the manufacture of our products. However, due to contractual terms, variability in the precise growth curves of our development and production ramps, and opportunities to renegotiate pricing, we generally do not have binding and enforceable purchase orders under such contracts beyond the short-term, and the timing and magnitude of purchase orders beyond such period is difficult to accurately project.
As discussed in and subject to the considerations referenced in Part I, Item 2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management Opportunities, Challenges and Uncertainties and 2024 Outlook—Cash Flow and Capital Expenditure Trends in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we currently expect our capital expenditures to support our projects globally to exceed $10.00 billion in 2024 and be between $8.00 to $10.00 billion in each of the following two fiscal years. We also have certain obligations in connection with our operations at Gigafactory New York and Gigafactory Shanghai, as outlined in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Material Cash Requirements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. 
As of March 31, 2024, we and our subsidiaries had outstanding $4.90 billion in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, of which $2.14 billion is scheduled to become due in the succeeding 12 months. For details regarding our indebtedness, refer to Note 7, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Sources and Conditions of Liquidity
Our sources to fund our material cash requirements are predominantly from our deliveries and servicing of new and used vehicles, sales and installations of our energy storage products, interest income, and proceeds from debt facilities and equity offerings, when applicable. 
As of March 31, 2024, we had $11.81 billion and $15.06 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, respectively. Balances held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $3.47 billion and consisted primarily of Chinese yuan and euros. We had $5.00 billion of unused committed credit amounts as of March 31, 2024. For details regarding our indebtedness, refer to Note 7, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We continue adapting our strategy to meet our liquidity and risk objectives, such as investing in U.S. government securities and other investments, to do more vertical integration, expand our product roadmap and provide financing options to our customers.
Summary of Cash Flows

 | Three Months Ended March 31,
(Dollars in millions) | 2024 | | 2023
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 242 | | $ | 2,513 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (5,084) | | $ | (2,484)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities | $ | 196 | | $ | (233) 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $2.27 billion to $242 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $2.51 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2023. This decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $1.19 billion and the decrease in net income excluding non-cash expenses, gains and losses of $1.08 billion.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Cash flows from investing activities and their variability across each period related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $2.77 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and $2.07 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2023, mainly for global factory expansion, machinery and equipment and AI related capital expenditures as we expand or enhance our product roadmap. We also purchased $2.31 billion and $411 million of short-term investments, net of proceeds from maturities, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash from financing activities changed by $429 million to $196 million net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $233 million net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change was primarily due to a $776 million increase in proceeds from issuances of debt, partially offset by a $289 million increase in repayments of debt and a $94 million increase in payments for buy-outs of noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries. See Note 7, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details regarding our debt obligations.
ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
None.

Q1 2024 Update

1

Highlights

Financial Summary

Operational Summary

Vehicle Capacity

Core Technology

Other Highlights

Outlook

Photos & Charts

Key Metrics

Financial Statements

Additional Information

03

04

06

07

08

09

10

11

22

24

30

H I G H L I G H T S

S U M M A R Y

Profitability

$1.2B GAAP operating income in Q1

$1.1B GAAP net income in Q1

$1.5B non-GAAP net income1 in Q1

Cash

Operating cash flow of $0.2B in Q1

Free cash flow2 of negative $2.5B in Q1 (AI infrastructure capex was $1.0B in Q1)

$2.2B decrease in our cash and investments3 in Q1 to $26.9B

Operations

Increased AI training compute by more than 130% in Q1

Record energy storage deployment of 4.1 GWh in Q1

Produced over 1,000 Cybertrucks in a single week in April
Produced over 1,000 Cybertrucks in a single week in April

We experienced numerous challenges in Q1, from the Red Sea conflict and the arson attack at Gigafactory Berlin, to the gradual ramp of the updated Model 3 in Fremont. Excluding Cybertruck and unscheduled downtime, our COGS4 per unit declined sequentially, driven primarily by lower raw material costs.

Global EV sales continue to be under pressure as many carmakers prioritize hybrids over EVs. While positive for our regulatory credits business, we prefer the industry to continue pushing EV adoption, which is in-line with our mission. To support our growth, we have been increasing awareness and expanding vehicle financing programs, including attractive leasing terms for our customers.
While many are pulling back on their investments, we are investing in future growth – including our AI infrastructure, production capacity, our Supercharger and service networks and new products infrastructure – with $2.8B of capital expenditures in Q1.

We recently undertook a cost-cutting exercise to increase operational efficiency. We also remain committed to company-wide cost reduction, including reducing COGS per vehicle. Ultimately, we are focused on profitable growth, including by leveraging existing factories and production lines to introduce new and more affordable products.

The future is not only electric, but also autonomous. We believe scaled autonomy is only possible with data from millions of vehicles and an immense AI training cluster. We have, and continue to expand, both. To make FSD (Supervised) 5 more accessible, we reduced the price of subscription to $99/month and the purchase price to $8,000 in the US.
(1) Excludes SBC (stock-based compensation), net of tax; (2) Free cash flow = operating cash flow less capex; (3) Includes cash, cash equivalents and investments; (4) Calculated by dividing Cost of Automotive Sales Revenue by respective quarter’s new deliveries (ex-operating leases); (5)Active driver supervision required; does not make the vehicle autonomous.

F I N A N C I A L   S U M M A R Y (Unaudited)

($ in millions, except percentages and per share data)

Q1



2023

Q2



2023

Q3



2023

Q4



2023

Q1



2024

YoY

Total automotive revenues

Energy generation and storage revenue

Services and other revenue

Total revenues

Total gross profit

Total GAAP gross margin

Operating expenses

Income from operations

Operating margin

Adjusted EBITDA

Adjusted EBITDA margin

Net income attributable to common stockholders (GAAP)

Net income attributable to common stockholders (non-GAAP)

EPS attributable to common stockholders, diluted (GAAP)
EPS attributable to common stockholders, diluted (GAAP)

EPS attributable to common stockholders, diluted (non-GAAP)

Net cash provided by operating activities

Capital expenditures

Free cash flow

Cash, cash equivalents and investments

4

19,963

1,529

1,837

23,329

4,511

19.3%

1,847

2,664

11.4%

4,267

18.3%

2,513

2,931

0.73

0.85

2,513

(2,072)

441

22,402

21,268

1,509

2,150

24,927

4,533

18.2%

2,134

2,399

9.6%

4,653

18.7%

2,703

3,148

0.78

0.91

3,065

(2,060)

1,005

23,075

19,625

1,559

2,166

23,350

4,178

17.9%

2,414

1,764

7.6%

3,758

16.1%

1,853

2,318

0.53

0.66

3,308

(2,460)

848

26,077

21,563

1,438

2,166

25,167

4,438

17.6%

2,374

2,064

8.2%

3,953

15.7%

7,928

2,485

2.27

0.71

4,370

(2,306)

2,064

29,094

17,378

1,635

2,288

21,301

3,696

17.4%

2,525

1,171

5.5%

3,384

15.9%

1,129

1,536

0.34

0.45

242

(2,773)

(2,531)

26,863

13%

7%

25%

9%

18%

199 bp

37%

56%

592 bp

21%

240 bp

55%

48%

53%

47%
(2,531)

26,863

13%

7%

25%

9%

18%

199 bp

37%

56%

592 bp

21%

240 bp

55%

48%

53%

47%

90%

34%

674%

20%

F I N A N C I A L S U M M A R Y

Revenue

Total revenue declined 9% YoY in Q1 to $21.3B. YoY, revenue was impacted by the following items:

reduced vehicle average selling price (ASP) YoY (excl. FX impact), including unfavorable impact of mix

decline in vehicle deliveries, partially due to the Model 3 update in the Fremont factory and Giga Berlin production

disruptions

negative FX impact of $0.2B1

+ growth in other parts of the business

+ higher FSD revenue recognition YoY due to release of Autopark feature in North America

Profitability

Our operating income decreased YoY to $1.2B in Q1, resulting in a 5.5% operating margin. YoY, operating income was primarily impacted by the following items:

reduced vehicle ASP due to pricing and mix

increase in operating expenses partly driven by AI, cell advancements and other R&D projects
increase in operating expenses partly driven by AI, cell advancements and other R&D projects

cost of Cybertruck production ramp

decline in vehicle deliveries, partially due to the Model 3 update in the Fremont factory and Giga Berlin production

disruptions

+ lower cost per vehicle, including lower raw material costs, freight and duties

+ gross profit growth in Energy Generation and Storage including IRA credit benefit

+ higher FSD revenue recognition YoY due to release of Autopark feature in North America

Cash

Quarter-end cash, cash equivalents and investments in Q1 was $26.9B. The sequential decrease of $2.2B was a result of negative free cash flow of $2.5B, driven by an inventory increase of $2.7B and AI infrastructure capex of $1.0B in Q1.

(1) Impact is calculated on a constant currency basis. Actuals are compared against current results converted into USD using average exchange rates from Q1’23.

5

O P E R A T I O N A L   S U M M A R Y (Unaudited)

Model 3/Y production
5

O P E R A T I O N A L   S U M M A R Y (Unaudited)

Model 3/Y production

Other models production

Total production

Model 3/Y deliveries

Other models deliveries

Total deliveries

of which subject to operating lease accounting

Q1



2023

Q2



2023

Q3



2023

Q4



2023

Q1



2024

YoY

421,371

19,437

460,211

19,489

440,808

479,700

412,180

10,695

422,875

22,357

446,915

19,225

466,140

21,883

416,800

13,688

430,488

419,074

15,985

435,059

17,423

476,777

18,212

494,989

461,538

22,969

484,507

10,563

412,376

20,995

433,371

369,783

17,027

386,810

8,365

173,131

28

Total end of quarter operating lease vehicle count Global vehicle inventory (days of supply)(1)

153,988

168,058

176,231

176,564

15

16

16

15

Storage deployed (MWh)

3,889

3,653

3,980

3,202

4,053

Tesla locations

Mobile service fleet

Supercharger stations

Supercharger connectors

1,000

1,692

4,947

45,169

1,068

1,769

5,265

48,082

1,129

1,846

5,595

51,105

1,208
1,000

1,692

4,947

45,169

1,068

1,769

5,265

48,082

1,129

1,846

5,595

51,105

1,208

1,909

5,952

54,892

1,258

1,897

6,249

57,579

(1)Days of supply is calculated by dividing new vehicle ending inventory by the relevant quarter’s deliveries and using 75 trading days (aligned with Automotive News definition).

6

2%

8%

2%

10%

59%

9%

63%

12%

87%

4%

26%

12%

26%

27%

V E H I C L E C A P A C I T Y

A sequential decline in volumes was partially caused by the early phase of the production ramp of the updated Model 3 at our Fremont factory and factory shutdowns at Gigafactory Berlin resulting from shipping diversions caused by the Red Sea conflict and from an arson attack.

US: California, Nevada and Texas
US: California, Nevada and Texas

Model 3 production in Fremont was down sequentially as we changed the production line to the updated model. Sequentially, Model Y production at Gigafactory Texas increased to an all-time high, while COGS per unit improved to an all-time low. The Cybertruck ramp continued successfully at Gigafactory Texas, with a sequential cost improvement in Q1. We produced over 1,000 Cybertrucks in a single week in April.

China: Shanghai

Production at Gigafactory Shanghai was down sequentially due to seasonality and planned shutdowns around Chinese New Year in Q1. Demand typically improves throughout the year. As we enter new markets, such as Chile, many of them will be supplied from Gigafactory Shanghai.

Europe: Berlin



Brandenburg
Europe: Berlin



Brandenburg

Model Y production in Berlin was down sequentially due to impacts from the Red Sea conflict and the arson attack that impacted the factory. Despite idle capacity charges and other costs from production disruptions, COGS per unit continued to decline sequentially.

7

Current Installed Annual Vehicle Capacity

Region

Model

Capacity

Status

California

Model S / Model X

100,000

Production

Model 3 / Model Y

>550,000

Production

Shanghai

Model 3 / Model Y

>950,000

Production

Berlin

Texas

Model Y

Model Y

>375,000

Production

>250,000

Production

Cybertruck

>125,000

Production

Nevada

Tesla Semi

Various

Next Gen Platform

TBD

Roadster







Pilot production

In development

In development
Various

Next Gen Platform

TBD

Roadster







Pilot production

In development

In development

Installed capacity ≠ current production rate and there may be limitations discovered as production rates approach capacity. Production rates depend on a variety of factors, including equipment uptime, component supply, downtime related to factory upgrades, regulatory considerations and other factors.

US/Canada

Europe

China

4%

3%

2%

1%

0%

Market share of Tesla vehicles by region (TTM) Source: Tesla estimates based on latest available data from ACEA; Autonews.com; CAAM – light- duty vehicles only; TTM = Trailing twelve months

C O R E   T E C H N O L O G Y

Artificial Intelligence Software and Hardware
C O R E   T E C H N O L O G Y

Artificial Intelligence Software and Hardware

We have been investing in the hardware and software ecosystems necessary to achieve vehicle autonomy and a ride-hailing service. We believe a scalable and profitable autonomy business can be realized through a vision-only architecture with end-to-end neural networks, trained on billions of miles of real-world data. Since the launch of FSD (Supervised) V12 earlier this year, it has become clear that this architecture long pursued by Tesla is the right solution for scalable autonomy. To further improve our end-to-end training capability, we will continue to increase our core AI infrastructure capacity in the coming months. In Q1, we completed the transition to Hardware 4.0, our latest in-vehicle computer with increased inference processing power and improved cameras.

1.4

1.2

1.0

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

0.0

FSD V12 Miles

FSD Miles

Cumulative miles driven with FSD Beta (billions; as of Apr-21-24)
0.0

FSD V12 Miles

FSD Miles

Cumulative miles driven with FSD Beta (billions; as of Apr-21-24)

Vehicle and Other Software

We rolled out FSD (Supervised) with a 30-day free trial to eligible cars in U.S. and Canada. FSD (Supervised) can change lanes, select forks to follow routes, navigate around vehicles and objects and make turns. We released Autopark to existing eligible FSD (Supervised) and Enhanced Autopilot customers. We are currently working on ride-hailing functionality that will be available in the future. We believe the Tesla software experience is best-in-class across all our products, and plan to seamlessly layer ride-hailing into the Tesla App.

Battery, Powertrain & Manufacturing

4680 ramp continued successfully in Q1 and continues to stay ahead of the Cybertruck ramp. Costs continued to come down sequentially as scrap, yield and production rate improved.

8

40,000

35,000

30,000

25,000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0
8

40,000

35,000

30,000

25,000

20,000

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

Tesla AI Training Capacity (H100 Equivalent GPUs)

O T H E R   H I G H L I G H T S

Our non-automotive business is becoming an increasingly profitable part of Tesla. As Megapack continues to ramp and as our fleet continues to grow, we are expecting consistent profit growth of our non-automotive business.

Energy Generation and Storage

Energy storage deployments increased sequentially in Q1 to a record 4.1 GWh. Energy Generation and Storage revenue and gross profit also achieved an all-time high in Q1. Revenues were up 7% YoY and gross profit was up 140% YoY, driven by increased Megapack deployments, partially offset by a decrease in solar deployments. Energy Generation and Storage remains our highest margin business. Our second general assembly line is now commissioned, and we continue to ramp our 40 GWh Megafactory in Lathrop, CA toward full capacity.

Services and Other
Services and Other

Services and Other revenue grew 25% YoY in Q1, while gross profit was down 40% YoY. The biggest driver of gross profit reduction YoY was lower used vehicle profit, partially offset by growth in gross profit from part sales.

Starting at the end of February, we began opening our North American Supercharger Network to more non-Tesla EV owners. We will continue to onboard OEMs who have committed to NACS over the coming quarters, while also opening more sites to other EVs in regions outside North America, both of which should drive incremental revenue and profit generation.

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

100

200

4

3

2

1

0

Non



Automotive gross profit ($M)

9

Energy Storage deployments (GWh)

O U T L O O K

Volume

Cash

Profit

Product

10
9

Energy Storage deployments (GWh)

O U T L O O K

Volume

Cash

Profit

Product

10

Our company is currently between two major growth waves: the first one began with the global expansion of the Model 3/Y platform and we believe the next one will be initiated by advances in autonomy and introduction of new products, including those built on our next generation vehicle platform. In 2024, our vehicle volume growth rate may be notably lower than the growth rate achieved in 2023, as our teams work on the launch of the next generation vehicle and other products. In 2024, the growth rates of energy storage deployments and revenue in our Energy Generation and Storage business should outpace the Automotive business.

We have sufficient liquidity to fund our product roadmap, long-term capacity expansion plans and other expenses. Furthermore, we will manage the business such that we maintain a strong balance sheet during this uncertain period.
While we continue to execute on innovations to reduce the cost of manufacturing and operations, over time, we expect our hardware-related profits to be accompanied by an acceleration of AI, software and fleet-based profits.

We have updated our future vehicle line-up to accelerate the launch of new models ahead of our previously communicated start of production in the second half of 2025.

These new vehicles, including more affordable models, will utilize aspects of the next generation platform as well as aspects of our current platforms, and will be able to be produced on the same manufacturing lines as our current vehicle line-up.
This update may result in achieving less cost reduction than previously expected but enables us to prudently grow our vehicle volumes in a more capex efficient manner during uncertain times. This would help us fully utilize our current expected maximum capacity of close to three million vehicles, enabling more than 50% growth over 2023 production before investing in new manufacturing lines.

Our purpose-built robotaxi product will continue to pursue a revolutionary “unboxed” manufacturing strategy.

P H O T O S   &   C H A R T S

E L E C T R I C   V E H I C L E   A D O P T I O N   R A T E   R E M A I N S   U N D E R   P R E S S U R E ,   E S P E C I A L L Y   O U T S I D E   O F   C H I N A

Global BEV market share



(12



months trailing)

12%

10%

8%

6%

4%

2%

0%

12

Source: ev-volumes.com and https://www.renaultgroup.com/en/finance-2/key-figures/monthly-sales/

China

World ex



China

T H E   T E S L A   E C O S Y S T E M   - M O R E   T H A N   J U S T   V E H I C L E S
China

T H E   T E S L A   E C O S Y S T E M   - M O R E   T H A N   J U S T   V E H I C L E S

13

M O D E L   3   - L E A S E   S T A R T I N G   A T   $ 2 9 9 / M O   I N   T H E   U . S .   ( $ 1 6 0 / M O   A F T E R   P R O B A B L E   G A S   S A V I N G S )

14

C Y B E R T R U C K   - F I N A L   A S S E M B L Y   L I N E

15

S U P E R C H A R G E R   N E T W O R K - O P E N I N G   U P   I N   N O R T H   A M E R I C A

16

P R E V I E W   O F   R I D E – H A I L I N G   I N   T H E   T E S L A   A P P

17

Demonstrative only.  Actual look and features subject to change.

D O J O   T R A I N I N G   C L U S T E R   ( N O T   A   R E N D E R )

18

M E G A P A C K   - P L U S   P O W E R ’ S   K A P O L E I   E N E R G Y   S T O R A G E   F A C I L I T Y

19

T E S L A   S E M I   - S T A R T   O F   C O N S T R U C T I O N   N E A R   G I G A F A C T O R Y   N E V A D A

20
20

C O S T   G R I N D   - S Q U E E Z I N G   E V E R Y   P E N N Y   O U T   O F   T H E   V E H I C L E   C O S T

21

K E Y M E T R I C S Q U A R T E R L Y (Unaudited)

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

1

2

3

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

1

2

0

2



Q

2

1

2

0

2



Q

3

1

2

0

2



Q

4

2

2

0

2



Q

1

2

2

0

2



Q

2

2

2

0

2



Q

3

2

2

0

2



Q

4

3

2

0

2



Q

1

3

2

0

2



Q

2

3

2

0

2



Q

3

3

2

0

2



Q

4

4

2

0

2



Q

1

1

2

0

2



Q

2

1

2

0

2



Q

3

1

2

0

2



Q

4

2

2

0

2



Q

1

2

2

0

2



Q

2

2

2

0

2



Q

3

2

2

0

2



Q

4

3

2

0

2



Q

1

3

2

0

2



Q

2

3

2

0

2



Q

3

3

2

0

2



Q

4

4

2

0

2



Q

1

1

2

0

2



Q

2

1

2

0

2



Q

3

1

2

0

2



Q

4

2

2

0

2



Q

1

2

2

0

2



Q

2

2

2

0

2



Q

3

2

2

0

2



Q

4

3

2

0

2



Q

1

3

2

0

2



Q

2

3

2

0

2



Q

3

3

2

0

2



Q

4

4

2

0

2



Q

1

Vehicle Deliveries

(millions of units)
2

0

2



Q

3

3

2

0

2



Q

4

4

2

0

2



Q

1

Vehicle Deliveries

(millions of units)

Operating Cash Flow ($B)

Free Cash Flow ($B)

Net Income ($B)

Adjusted EBITDA ($B)

0.5

0.4

0.3

0.2

0.1

0.0

22

K E Y M E T R I C S T R A I L I N G 1 2 M O N T H S ( T T M ) (Unaudited)

20

18

16

14

12

10

8

6

4

2

0

1

2

0

2



Q

2

1

2

0

2



Q

3

1

2

0

2



Q

4

2

2

0

2



Q

1

2

2

0

2



Q

2

2

2

0

2



Q

3

2

2

0

2



Q

4

3

2

0

2



Q

1

3

2

0

2



Q

2

3

2

0

2



Q

3

3

2

0

2



Q

4

4

2

0

2



Q

1

20

18

16

14

12

10

8

6

4

2

0

1

2

0

2



Q

2

1

2

0

2



Q

3

1

2

0

2



Q

4

2

2

0

2



Q

1

2

2

0

2



Q

2

2

2

0

2



Q

3

2

2

0

2



Q

4

3

2

0

2



Q

1

3

2

0

2



Q

2

3

2

0

2



Q

3

3

2

0

2



Q

4

4

2

0

2



Q

1

1

2

0

2



Q

2

1

2

0

2



Q

3

1

2

0

2



Q

4

2

2

0

2



Q

1

2

2

0

2



Q

2

2

2

0

2



Q

3

2

2

0

2



Q

4

3

2

0
2



Q

4

2

2

0

2



Q

1

2

2

0

2



Q

2

2

2

0

2



Q

3

2

2

0

2



Q

4

3

2

0

2



Q

1

3

2

0

2



Q

2

3

2

0

2



Q

3

3

2

0

2



Q

4

4

2

0

2



Q

1

Vehicle Deliveries

(millions of units)

Operating Cash Flow ($B)

Free Cash Flow ($B)

Net Income ($B)

Adjusted EBITDA ($B)

2.0

1.8

1.6

1.4

1.2

1.0

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

0.0

23

F I N A N C I A L     S T A T E M E N T S

S T A T E M E N T   O F   O P E R A T I O N S (Unaudited)

In millions of USD or shares as applicable, except per share data REVENUES Automotive sales Automotive regulatory credits Automotive leasing

Total automotive revenues

Energy generation and storage

Services and other

Total revenues

COST OF REVENUES

Automotive sales

Automotive leasing

Total automotive cost of revenues

Energy generation and storage

Services and other

Total cost of revenues

Gross profit

OPERATING EXPENSES

Research and development

Selling, general and administrative
Gross profit

OPERATING EXPENSES

Research and development

Selling, general and administrative

Total operating expenses

INCOME FROM OPERATIONS

Interest income

Interest expense

Other (expense) income, net

INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES Provision for (benefit from) income taxes NET INCOME Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS

Net income per share of common stock attributable to common stockholders

Basic

Diluted

Weighted average shares used in computing net income per share of common stock

Basic

Diluted

25

Q1



2023

Q2



2023

Q3



2023

Q4



2023

Q1



2024

18,878

521

564

19,963

1,529

1,837

23,329

15,422

333

15,755

1,361

1,702

18,818

4,511

771

1,076

1,847

2,664

213

(29)

(48)

2,800

261

2,539

26

2,513

20,419

282

567

21,268

1,509

2,150

24,927

16,841

338

17,179

1,231

1,984

20,394

4,533

943

1,191

2,134

2,399
1,509

2,150

24,927

16,841

338

17,179

1,231

1,984

20,394

4,533

943

1,191

2,134

2,399

238

(28)

328

2,937

323

2,614

(89)

2,703

18,582

554

489

19,625

1,559

2,166

23,350

15,656

301

15,957

1,178

2,037

19,172

4,178

1,161

1,253

2,414

1,764

282

(38)

37

2,045

167

1,878

25

1,853

20,630

433

500

21,563

1,438

2,166

25,167

17,202

296

17,498

1,124

2,107

20,729

4,438

1,094

1,280

2,374

2,064

333

(61)

(145)

2,191

(5,752)

7,943

15

7,928

16,460

442

476

17,378

1,635

2,288

21,301

13,897

269

14,166

1,232

2,207

17,605

3,696

1,151

1,374

2,525

1,171

350

(76)

108

1,553

409

1,144

15

1,129

$        0.80 $        0.73

$        0.85 $        0.78

$        0.58 $        0.53

$        2.49 $        2.27

$        0.37 $        0.34

3,166

3,468

3,171

3,478

3,176

3,493

3,181

3,492

3,186

3,484

B A L A N C E  S H E E T (Unaudited)

In millions of USD

ASSETS

Current assets
3,186

3,484

B A L A N C E  S H E E T (Unaudited)

In millions of USD

ASSETS

Current assets

Cash, cash equivalents and investments Accounts receivable, net Inventory Prepaid expenses and other current assets

Total current assets

Operating lease vehicles, net Solar energy systems, net Property, plant and equipment, net Operating lease right-of-use assets Digital assets, net Goodwill and intangible assets, net Deferred tax assets Other non-current assets

Total assets

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY

Current liabilities

Accounts payable Accrued liabilities and other Deferred revenue Current portion of debt and finance leases (1)

Total current liabilities

Debt and finance leases, net of current portion (1) Deferred revenue, net of current portion Other long-term liabilities

Total liabilities

Redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries Total stockholders' equity Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries

Total liabilities and equity

(1) Breakdown of our debt is as follows:
Total liabilities and equity

(1) Breakdown of our debt is as follows:

Vehicle and energy product financing (non-recourse)

Recourse debt

Total debt excluding vehicle and energy product financing

Days sales outstanding

Days payable outstanding

26

31



Mar



23

30



Jun



23

30



Sep



23

31



Dec



23

31



Mar



24

22,402

2,993

14,375

3,227

42,997

5,473

5,427

24,969

2,800

184

399

399

4,185

86,833

15,904

8,378

1,750

1,404

27,436

1,272

2,911

5,979

37,598

407

48,054

774

86,833

23,075

3,447

14,356

2,997

43,875

5,935

5,365

26,389

3,352

184

465

537

4,489

90,591

15,273

8,684

2,176

1,459

27,592

872

3,021

6,924

38,409

288

51,130

764

90,591

26,077

2,520

13,721

2,708

45,026

6,119

5,293

27,744

3,637

184

441

648

4,849

93,941

13,937

8,530

2,206

1,967

26,640

2,426

3,059

7,321

39,446

277

53,466

752

93,941

29,094

3,508

13,626

3,388

49,616

5,989

5,229

29,725

4,180

184

431

6,733

4,531
93,941

29,094

3,508

13,626

3,388

49,616

5,989

5,229

29,725

4,180

184

431

6,733

4,531

106,618

14,431

9,080

2,864

2,373

28,748

2,857

3,251

8,153

43,009

242

62,634

733

106,618

26,863

3,887

16,033

3,752

50,535

5,736

5,162

31,436

4,367

184

421

6,769

4,616

109,226

14,725

9,243

3,024

2,461

29,453

2,899

3,214

8,480

44,046

73

64,378

729

109,226

1,708

1,475

3,660

4,613

4,820

44

44

11

75

44

44

12

70

44

44

12

70

44

44

11

63

54

54

16

75

S T A T E M E N T  O F  C A S H  F L O W S (Unaudited)
44

12

70

44

44

11

63

54

54

16

75

S T A T E M E N T  O F  C A S H  F L O W S (Unaudited)

In millions of USD CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net income Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation, amortization and impairment Stock-based compensation Deferred income taxes Other Changes in operating assets and liabilities Net cash provided by operating activities CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Capital expenditures Purchases of solar energy systems, net of sales Purchases of investments Proceeds from maturities of investments Proceeds from sales of investments Business combinations, net of cash acquired Net cash used in investing activities CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net cash flows from other debt activities Net (repayments) borrowings under vehicle and energy product financing Net cash flows from noncontrolling interests – Solar Other Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period

27

Q1



2023

Q2



2023

Q3



2023

Q4



2023

Q1



2024

2,539

1,046

418

(55)

40

(1,475)

2,513

(2,072)

(1)

(2,015)

1,604

—

—

(2,484)

(127)

(294)

(43)

231

(233)

50

(154)

16,924

16,770

2,614

1,154

445

(148)

(47)

(953)

3,065

(2,060)

(0)

(5,075)

3,539

138

(76)

(3,534)

(124)

(233)

(34)

63

(328)

(94)

(891)

16,770

15,879

1,878

1,235

465

(113)

145

(302)

3,308

(2,460)

1

(6,131)

3,816

—

12

(4,762)

(140)

2,194

(45)

254

2,263

(98)

711

15,879

16,590

7,943

1,232

484

(6,033)

262

482

4,370

(2,306)

(1)

(5,891)

3,394

—

—

(4,804)

(141)

952

(76)

152

887

146

599

16,590

17,189

1,144

1,246

524

(11)

—

(2,661)

242

(2,773)
952

(76)

152

887

146

599

16,590

17,189

1,144

1,246

524

(11)

—

(2,661)

242

(2,773)

(4)

(6,622)

4,315

—

—

(5,084)

(140)

216

(131)

251

196

(79)

(4,725)

17,189

12,464

R E C O N C I L I A T I O N  O F  G A A P  T O  N O N – G A A P  F I N A N C I A L  I N F O R M A T I O N (Unaudited)

In millions of USD or shares as applicable, except per share data

Q1



2023

Q2



2023

Q3



2023

Q4



2023

Q1



2024

Net income attributable to common stockholders (GAAP)

Stock-based compensation expense, net of tax

Release of valuation allowance on deferred tax assets

Net income attributable to common stockholders (non-GAAP)

Less: Buy



out of noncontrolling interest

Net income used in computing diluted EPS attributable to common stockholders (non-GAAP)

EPS attributable to common stockholders, diluted (GAAP)

Stock-based compensation expense per share, net of tax

Release of valuation allowance on deferred tax assets per share
Release of valuation allowance on deferred tax assets per share

EPS attributable to common stockholders, diluted (non-GAAP)

Shares used in EPS calculation, diluted (GAAP and non-GAAP)

Net income attributable to common stockholders (GAAP)

Interest expense

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

Depreciation, amortization and impairment

Stock



based compensation expense

Adjusted EBITDA (non



GAAP)

Total revenues

Adjusted EBITDA margin (non



GAAP)

2,513

418

—

2,931

(5)

2,936

0.73

0.12

—

0.85

3,468

2,513

29

261

1,046

418

4,267

23,329

18.3%

2,703

445

—

3,148

—

3,148

0.78

0.13

—

0.91

3,478

2,703

28

323

1,154

445

4,653

24,927

18.7%

1,853

465

—

2,318

2

2,316

0.53

0.13

—

0.66

3,493

1,853

38

167

1,235

465

3,758

23,350

16.1%

7,928

484

(5,927)

2,485

1

2,484

2.27

0.14

(1.70)

0.71

3,492

7,928

61

(5,752)

1,232

484

3,953

25,167

15.7%

1,129

407

—

1,536

(42)

1,578

0.34

0.11

—

0.45

3,484

1,129

76
3,953

25,167

15.7%

1,129

407

—

1,536

(42)

1,578

0.34

0.11

—

0.45

3,484

1,129

76

409

1,246

524

3,384

21,301

15.9%

28

R E C O N C I L I A T I O N  O F  G A A P  T O  N O N – G A A P  F I N A N C I A L  I N F O R M A T I O N (Unaudited)

In millions of USD

Net cash provided by operating activities (GAAP)

Capital expenditures

Free cash flow (non



GAAP)

In millions of USD

Net income attributable to common stockholders (GAAP)

Interest expense

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

Depreciation, amortization and impairment

Stock



based compensation expense

Adjusted EBITDA (non



GAAP)

3Q



2020 4Q



2020 1Q



2021 2Q



2021 3Q



2021 4Q



2021 1Q



2022 2Q



2022 3Q



2022 4Q



2022 1Q



2023 2Q



2023 3Q



2023 4Q



2023 1Q



2024

2,400

3,019

1,641

2,124

3,147

4,585

3,995

2,351

5,100

3,278

2,513

3,065

3,308

4,370

242

(1,005)

(1,151)

(1,348)

(1,505)

(1,819)

(1,810)

(1,767)

(1,730)

(1,803)

(1,858)

(2,072)
(1,005)

(1,151)

(1,348)

(1,505)

(1,819)

(1,810)

(1,767)

(1,730)

(1,803)

(1,858)

(2,072)

(2,060)

(2,460)

(2,306)

(2,773)

1,395

1,868

293

619

1,328

2,775

2,228

621

3,297

1,420

441

1,005

848

2,064

(2,531)

3Q



2020 4Q



2020 1Q



2021 2Q



2021 3Q



2021 4Q



2021 1Q



2022 2Q



2022 3Q



2022 4Q



2022 1Q



2023 2Q



2023 3Q



2023 4Q



2023 1Q



2024

438

1,142

1,618

2,321

3,318

2,259

3,292

3,687

2,513

2,703

1,853

7,928

331

163

186

584

543

270

246

83

618

633

99

69

621

614

75

115

681

474

126

223

761

475

71

292

848

558

61

346

880

418

44

205

922

361

53

305

956

362

33

276

989

419

29

261

1,046

418

28

323

1,154

445

38

61

167

(5,752)

1,129

76

409

1,235

1,232

1,246

465

484

524

1,807

1,850

1,841

2,487

3,203

4,090

5,023

3,791

4,968

5,404

4,267

4,653

3,758

3,953

3,384

In millions of USD

2Q



2021 3Q



2021 4Q



2021 1Q



2022 2Q



2022 3Q



2022 4Q
3,384

In millions of USD

2Q



2021 3Q



2021 4Q



2021 1Q



2022 2Q



2022 3Q



2022 4Q



2022 1Q



2023 2Q



2023 3Q



2023 4Q



2023 1Q



2024

Net cash provided by operating activities – TTM (GAAP)

9,184

9,931

11,497

13,851

14,078

16,031

14,724

13,242

13,956

12,164

13,256

10,985

Capital expenditures – TTM

Free cash flow – TTM (non-GAAP)

(5,009)

(5,823)

(6,482)

(6,901)

(7,126)

(7,110)

(7,158)

(7,463)

(7,793)

(8,450)

(8,898)

(9,599)

4,175

4,108

5,015

6,950

6,952

8,921

7,566

5,779

6,163

3,714

4,358

1,386

In millions of USD Net income attributable to common stockholders – TTM (GAAP)

Interest expense – TTM

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes – TTM

Depreciation, amortization and impairment – TTM

Stock-based compensation expense – TTM

Adjusted EBITDA – TTM (non-GAAP)

2Q



2021 3Q



2021 4Q



2021 1Q



2022 2Q



2022 3Q



2022 4Q



2022 1Q



2023 2Q



2023 3Q



2023 4Q



2023 1Q



2024

2,181

3,468

5,519

8,399
2022 4Q



2022 1Q



2023 2Q



2023 3Q



2023 4Q



2023 1Q



2024

2,181

3,468

5,519

8,399

9,516

11,190

12,556

11,751

12,195

10,756

14,997

13,613

583

453

2,504

2,264

7,985

546

490

2,681

2,196

9,381

371

699

2,911

2,121

333

976

3,170

1,925

302

1,066

229

1,148

191

159

143

128

156

203

1,132

1,047

1,165

1,027

(5,001)

(4,853)

3,411

3,606

3,747

3,913

4,145

4,424

4,667

4,867

1,812

1,699

1,560

1,560

1,644

1,747

1,812

1,918

11,621

14,803

16,107

17,872

19,186

18,430

19,292

18,082

16,631

15,748

29

TTM = Trailing twelve months

A D D I T I O N A L  I N F O R M A T I O N

WEBCAST INFORMATION

Tesla will provide a live webcast of its first quarter 2024 financial results conference call beginning at 4:30 p.m. CT on April 23, 2024 at ir.tesla.com. This webcast will also be available for replay for approximately one year thereafter.

CERTAIN TERMS
When  used  in  this  update,  certain  terms  have  the  following  meanings.  Our  vehicle  deliveries  include  only  vehicles  that  have  been  transferred  to  end  customers  with  all  paperwork  correctly  completed.  Our  energy  product deployment  volume  includes  both  customer  units  installed  and  equipment  sales;  we  report  installations  at  time  of  commissioning  for  storage  projects  or  inspection  for  solar  projects,  and  equipment  sales  at  time  of  delivery. "Adjusted  EBITDA"  is  equal  to  (i)  net  income  (loss)  attributable  to  common  stockholders  before  (ii)(a)  interest  expense,  (b)  provision  for  income  taxes,  (c)  depreciation,  amortization  and  impairment  and  (d)  stock-based compensation  expense.  "Free  cash  flow"  is  operating  cash  flow  less  capital  expenditures.  Average  cost  per  vehicle  is  cost  of  automotive  sales  divided  by  new  vehicle  deliveries  (excluding  operating  leases).  “Days  sales
sales  divided  by  new  vehicle  deliveries  (excluding  operating  leases).  “Days  sales outstanding”  is  equal  to  (i)  average  accounts  receivable,  net  for  the  period  divided  by  (ii)  total  revenues  and  multiplied  by  (iii)  the  number  of  days  in  the  period.  “Days  payable  outstanding”  is  equal  to  (i)  average  accounts payable for the period divided by (ii) total cost of revenues and multiplied by (iii) the number of days in the period. “Days of supply” is calculated by dividing new car ending inventory by the relevant quarter’s deliveries and using 75 trading days. Constant currency impacts are calculated by comparing actuals against current results converted into USD using average exchange rates from the prior period.
NON



GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Consolidated financial information has been presented in accordance with GAAP as well as on a non-GAAP basis to supplement our consolidated financial results. Our non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders, non-GAAP net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders on a diluted per share basis (calculated using weighted average shares for GAAP diluted net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders), Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures also facilitate management’s internal comparisons to Tesla’s historical performance as well as comparisons to the operating results of other companies. Management believes that it is useful to supplement its GAAP financial statements with this non-GAAP information because management uses such information internally for its operating, budgeting and financial planning purposes. Management also believes that presentation of the
budgeting and financial planning purposes. Management also believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to our investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations, so that investors can see through the eyes of Tesla management regarding important financial metrics that Tesla uses to run the business and allowing investors to better understand Tesla’s performance. Non-GAAP information is not prepared under a comprehensive set of accounting rules and therefore, should only be read in conjunction with financial information reported under U.S. GAAP when understanding Tesla’s operating performance. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial information is provided above.
FORWARD



LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this update, including statements in the “Outlook” section; statements relating to the future development, strategy, ramp, production and capacity, demand and market growth, cost, pricing and profitability, investment, deliveries, deployment, availability and other features and improvements and timing of existing and future Tesla products; statements regarding operating margin, operating profits, spending and liquidity; and statements regarding expansion, improvements and/or ramp and related timing at our factories are “forward-looking statements” that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations, and as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those projected. The following important factors, without limitation, could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: the risk of delays in launching and
differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: the risk of delays in launching and manufacturing our products and features cost-effectively; our ability to grow our sales, delivery, installation, servicing and charging capabilities and effectively manage this growth; consumers’ demand for electric vehicles generally and our vehicles specifically; the ability of suppliers to deliver components according to schedules, prices, quality and volumes acceptable to us, and our ability to manage such components effectively; any issues with lithium-ion cells or other components manufactured at our factories; our ability to ramp our factories in accordance with our plans; our ability to procure supply of battery cells, including through our own manufacturing; risks relating to international expansion; any failures by Tesla products to perform as expected or if product recalls occur; the risk of product liability claims; competition in the automotive and energy product markets;
the risk of product liability claims; competition in the automotive and energy product markets; our ability to maintain public credibility and confidence in our long-term business prospects; our ability to manage risks relating to our various product financing programs; the status of government and economic incentives for electric vehicles and energy products; our ability to attract, hire and retain key employees and qualified personnel; our ability to maintain the security of our information and production and product systems; our compliance with various regulations and laws applicable to our operations and products, which may evolve from time to time; risks relating to our indebtedness and financing strategies; and adverse foreign exchange movements. More information on potential factors that could affect our financial results is included from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including the risks identified under the section captioned “Risk
Commission filings and reports, including the risks identified under the section captioned “Risk Factors” in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on January 26, 2024. Tesla disclaims any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
30

Tesla, Inc. (NASDAQ:TSLA) Q1 2024 Earnings Conference Call April 23, 2024 5:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Martin Viecha – Vice President-Investor Relations Elon Musk – Chief Executive Officer Vaibhav Taneja – Chief Financial Officer Lars Moravy – Vice President-Vehicle Engineering Ashok Elluswamy – Director-Autopilot Software
Conference Call Participants
Tony Sacconaghi – Bernstein Adam Jonas – Morgan Stanley Alex Potter – Piper Sandler Mark Delaney – Goldman Sachs Colin Rusch – Oppenheimer Ben Kallo – Baird Shreyas Patil – Wolfe Research
Martin Viecha
Tesla's First Quarter 2024 Q&A Webcast. My name is Martin Viecha, VP of Investor Relations, and I'm joined today by Elon Musk, Vaibhav Taneja, and a number of other executives. Our Q1 results were announced at about 3.00 p.m. Central Time in the Update Deck we published at the same link as this webcast. During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events and results could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in our most recent filings with the SEC. During the question-and-answer portion of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Please use the raise hand button to join the question queue.
But before we jump into Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
Elon Musk
Thanks, Martin. So to recap, in Q1 we navigated several unforeseen challenges as well as the ramp of the updated Model 3 in Fremont. There was, as we all have seen, the EV adoption rate globally is under pressure and a lot of other auto manufacturers are pulling back on EVs and pursuing plug-in hybrids instead. We believe this is not the right strategy and electric vehicles will ultimately dominate the market.
Despite these challenges, the Tesla team did a great job executing in a tough environment and energy storage deployments, the Megapack in particular, reached an all-time high in Q1, leading to record profitability for the energy business, and that looks likely to continue to increase in the quarters and years ahead. It will increase. We actually know that it will, so significantly faster than the car business as we expected.
We also continue to expand our AI training capacity in Q1, more than doubling our training compute sequentially. In terms of the new product roadmap, there has been a lot of talk about our upcoming vehicle line in the next – in the past several weeks. We've updated our future vehicle lineup to accelerate the launch of new models ahead, previously mentioned startup production in the second half of 2025, so we expect it to be more like the early 2025, if not late this year. These new vehicles, including more affordable models, will use aspects of the next generation platform as well as aspects of our current platforms, and will be able to produce on the same manufacturing lines as our current vehicle lineup. So it's not contingent on any new factory or massive new production line. It'll be made on our current production lines much more efficiently. And we think this should allow us to get to over 3 million vehicles of capacity when realized to the full extent.
Regarding FSD Version 12, which is the pure AI-based self-driving, if you haven't experienced this, I strongly urge you to try it out. It's profound and the rate of improvement is rapid so – and we've now turned that on for all cars with the cameras and inference computer and everything from Hardware 3 on in North America. So it's been pushed out to, I think, around 1.8 million vehicles and we're seeing about half of people use it so far and that percentage is increasing with each passing week.
So, we now have over 300 billion miles that have been driven with FSD V12. Since the launch of full self-driving, supervised full self-driving, it's become very clear that the vision-based approach with end-to-end neural networks is the right solution for scalable autonomy. It's really how humans drive. Our entire road network is designed for biological neural nets and eyes. So naturally cameras and digital neural nets are the solution to our current road system.
To make it more accessible, we've reduced the subscription price to $99 a month, so it's easy to try out. And as we've announced, we'll be showcasing our purpose-built Robotaxi, or Cybercab, in August. Yes. Regarding AI compute, over the past few months, we've been actively working on expanding Tesla's core AI infrastructure. For a while there, we were training constrained in our progress. We are, at this point, no longer training constrained and so we're making rapid progress.
We've installed and commissioned, meaning they're actually working 35,000 H100 computers or GPUs, GPU is wrong word, they need a new word. I always feel like a wince when I say GPU because it's not – GPU stands – G stands for graphics, and it doesn't do graphics. But anyway roughly 35,000 H100s are active, and we expect that to be probably 85,000 or thereabouts by the end of this year and training, just for training.
We are making sure that we're being as efficient as possible in our training. It's not just about the number of H100s, but how efficiently they're used. So, in conclusion, we're super excited about our autonomy road map. I think it should be obvious to anyone who's driving Version 12 and it tells that that it is only a matter of time before we exceed the reliability of humans and not much time with that. And we're really headed for an electric vehicle, an autonomous future.
And I'll go back to something I said several years ago that in the future, gasoline cars that are not autonomous will be like riding a horse and using a flip phone. And that will become very obvious in hindsight. We continue to make the necessary investments that will drive growth and profits for Tesla in the future, and I wanted to thank the Tesla team for incredible execution during this period and look forward to everything that we have planned ahead. Thanks.
Martin Viecha
Thank you very much, and Vaibhav has some comments as well.
Vaibhav Taneja
Thanks. It's important to acknowledge what Elon said, from our auto business perspective. We did see a seasonal decline in revenues quarter-over-quarter and those were primarily because of seasonality, uncertain macroeconomic environment, and the other reasons, which Elon had mentioned earlier. Auto margins declined from 18.9% to 18.5%. Excluding the impact of Cybertruck, the impact of pricing actions was largely offset by reductions in per unit costs and the recognition of revenue from Autopark feature for certain vehicles in the U.S. that previously did not have that functionality.
Additionally, while we did experience higher cost due to the ramp of Model 3 in Fremont and disruptions in Berlin, these costs were largely offset by cost reduction initiatives. In fact, if we exclude Cybertruck and Fremont Model 3 ramp costs, the revenue from Autopark, auto margins improved slightly. Currently normalized Model Y cost per vehicle in Austin and Berlin are already very close to that of Fremont. Our ability to reduce costs without sacrificing on quality was due to the amazing efforts of the team, in executing Tesla's relentless pursuit of efficiency across the business.
We've also witnessed that as other OEMs are pulling back on their investments in EV, there is increasing appetite for credits, and that means a steady stream of revenue for us. Obviously, seeing others pull back from EV is not the future we want. We would prefer it the whole industry went all in. On the demand front, we've undertaken a variety of initiatives, including lowering the price of both the purchase and subscription options for FSD launching extremely attractive leasing specials for the Model 3 in the U.S. for $299 a month and offering attractive financing options in certain markets. We believe that our awareness activities, paired with attractive financing, will go a long way in expanding our reach and driving demand for our products.
Our Energy business continues to make meaningful progress with margins reaching a record of 24.6%. We expect the energy storage deployments for 2024 to grow at least 75% higher from 2023. And accordingly, this business will begin contributing significantly to our overall profitability. Note that there is a bit of lumpiness in our storage deployments due to a variety of factors that are outside of our control, so deployments may fluctuate quarter-over-quarter.
On the operating expense front, we saw a sequential increase from our AI initiatives, continued investment in future projects, marketing, and other activities. We had negative free cash flow of $2.5 billion in the first quarter. The primary driver of this was an increase in inventory from a mismatch between builds and deliveries as discussed before, and our elevated spend on CapEx across various initiatives, including AI compute. We expect the inventory build to reverse in the second quarter and free cash flow to return to positive again.
As we prepare the company for the next phase of growth, we had to make the hard but necessary decision to reduce our head count by over 10%.
The savings generated are expected to be well in excess of $1 billion on an annual run rate basis. We are also getting hyper focused on CapEx efficiency and utilizing our installed capacity in a more efficient manner. The savings from these initiatives, including our cost reductions will help improve our overall profitability and ultimately enable us to increase the scale of our investments in AI.
In conclusion, the future is extremely bright and the journey to get there while challenging will be extremely rewarding.
Once again, I would like to thank the whole Tesla team for delivering great results. And we can open it up to Q&A.
Question-and-Answer Session
A - Martin Viecha
Okay. Let's start with investor Q&A. The first question is, what is the status of 4680. What is the current output? Lars?
Lars Moravy
Sure. 4680 production increased about 18% to 20% from Q4 reaching greater than 1K a week for Cybertruck, which is about 7 gigawatt hours per year as we posted on X. We expect to stay ahead of the Cybertruck ramp with the cell production throughout Q2 as we ramp the third of four lines in Phase 1, while maintaining multiple weeks of cell inventory to make sure we're ahead of the ramp. Because we're ramping, COGS continues to drop rapidly week-over-week driven by yield improvements throughout the lines and production volume increases. So our goal, and we expect to do this is to beat supplier cost of nickel-based cells by the end of the year.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The second question is on Optimus. So what is the current status of Optimus? Are they currently performing any factory tasks? When do you expect to start mass production?
Elon Musk
We are able to do simple factory tasks or at least, I should say, factory tasks in the lab. In terms of – we do think we will have Optimus in limited production in the natural factory itself, doing useful tasks before the end of this year. And then I think we may be able to sell it externally by the end of next year. These are just guesses.
As I've said before, I think Optimus will be more valuable than everything else combined. Because if you've got a sentient humanoid robots that is able to navigate reality and do tasks at request, there is no meaningful limit to the size of the economy. So that's what is going to happen. And I think Tesla is best positioned of any humanoid robot maker to be able to reach volume production with efficient inference on the robot itself.
I mean this perhaps is a point that is worth emphasizing Tesla's AI inference efficiency is vastly better than any other company. There is no company even close to the inference efficiency of Tesla. We've had to do that because we were constrained by the inference hardware in the car, we didn't have a choice. But that will pay dividends in many ways.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The third question is, what is the current assessment of the pathway towards regulatory approval for unsupervised FSD in the U.S. And how should we think about the appropriate safety threshold compared to human drivers?
Elon Musk
Sure.
Lars Moravy
I can start. There are a handful of states that already have adopted autonomous vehicle laws. These states are paving the way for operations, while the data for such operations guides a broader adoption of driver-less vehicles. I think Ashok can talk a little bit about our safety methodology, but we expect that these states and the work ongoing as well as the data that we're providing will pave a way for a broad-based regulatory approval in the U.S. at least and then in other countries as well?
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes. It's actually been pretty helpful that other autonomous car companies have been cutting a path through the regulatory jungle, which is absurd. That's actually quite helpful. And they have obviously been operating in San Francisco for a while. I think they got approval for City of LA. So these approvals are happening rapidly. I think if you've got at scale, a statistically significant amount of data that shows conclusively that the autonomous car has, let's say, half the accident rate of a human-driven car, I think, that's difficult to ignore because at that point, stopping autonomy means killing people.
So I actually do not think that there will be significant regulatory barriers provided there was conclusive data that the autonomous car is safer than a human-driven car. And in my view, this will be much like elevators. Elevators used to be operated by a guy with relay switch. But sometimes that guy would get tired or drunk or just make a mistake, and shatter somebody in half between floors. So we just get an elevator and press button, we don't think about it. In fact, it's kind of weird if somebody is standing there with a relay switch.
And that will be how cars work. You just summon the car using your phone, you get in, it takes you to a destination, you get out.
Vaibhav Taneja
You don't even think about it?
Elon Musk
You don't even think about it. Just like an elevator, it takes you to your floor. That's it. Don't think about how the elevator is working or anything like that. And something I should clarify is that Tesla will be operating the fleet. So you can think of like how Tesla, think of it’s like some combination of Airbnb and Uber, meaning that there will be some number of cars that Tesla owns itself and operates in the fleet. There will be some number of cars and then there'll be a bunch of cars where they're owned by the end user. That end user can add or subtract their car to the fleet whenever they want, and they can decide if they want to only let the car be used by friends and family or only by 5-star users or by anyone at any time they could have the car come back to them and be exclusively theirs, like an Airbnb.
You could rent out your guest room or not, any time you want. So as our fleet grows, we have 7 million cars going to – 9 million cars going to, eventually tens of millions of cars worldwide. With a constant feedback loop, every time something goes wrong, that gets added to the training data and you get this training flywheel happening in the same way that Google Search has the sort of flywheel, it's very difficult to compete with Google because people are constantly doing searches and clicking and Google is getting that feedback loop.
It’s the same with Tesla. But at a scale that is maybe difficult to comprehend, but ultimately, it will be tens of millions. I think there's also some potential here for an AWS element down the road where if we've got very powerful inference because we've got a Hardware 3 in the cars, but now all cars are being made with Hardware 4. Hardware 5 is pretty much designed and should be in cars, hopefully towards the end of next year. And there's a potential to run – when the car is not moving to actually run distributed inference. So kind of like AWS, but distributed inference. Like it takes a lot of computers to train an AI model, but many orders of magnitude less compute to run it.
So if you can imagine future, perhaps where there's a fleet of 100 million Teslas, and on average, they've got like maybe a kilowatt of inference compute. That's 100 gigawatts of inference compute distributed all around the world. It's pretty hard to put together 100 gigawatts of AI compute. And even in an autonomous future where the car is, perhaps, used instead of being used 10 hours a week, it is used 50 hours a week. That still leaves over 100 hours a week where the car inference computer could be doing something else. And it seems like it will be a waste not to use it.
Martin Viecha
Ashok, do you want to chime in on the air process and safety?
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes, we have multiple tiers of validating the safety in any given week, we train hundreds of neural networks that can produce different trajectories for how to drive the car, we replay them through the millions of clips that we have already collected from our users and our own QA. Those are like critical events, like someone jumping out in front or like other critical events that we have gathered database over many, many years, and we replay through all of them to make sure that we are net improving safety. And on top of it, we have simulation systems that also try to recreate this and test this in closed loop fashion. And some of this is validated, we give it to our own QA drivers. We have hundreds of them in different cities, in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Austin, New York, a lot of different locations.
They are also driving this and collecting real-world miles, and we have an estimate of what are the critical events, are they a net improvement compared to the previous week’s builds. And once we have confidence that the build is a net improvement, then we start shipping to early users, like 2,000 employees initially that they would like it to build, they will give feedback on like if it's an improvement there or they're noting some new issues that we did not capture in our own QA process. And only after all of this is validated, then we go to external customers.
And even when we go external, we have like live dashboards of monitoring every critical event that's happening in the fleet sorted by the criticality of it. So we are having a constant pulse on the build quality and the safety improvement along the way. And then any failures like Elon alluded to, we get the data back, add it to the training and that improves the model in the next cycle. So we have this like constant feedback loop of issues, fixes, evaluations and then rinse and repeat. And especially with the new V12 architecture, all of this is automatically improving without requiring much engineering interventions in the sense that engineers don't have to be creative in like how they code the algorithms. It's mostly learning on its own based on data.
So you see that, okay, every failure or like this is how a person shows, this is how you drive this intersection or something like that, they get the data back. We add it to the neural network, and it learns from that trained data automatically instead of some engineers saying that, oh, here, you must rotate the steering wheel by this much or something like that. There's no hard inference conditions, it's everything is neural network, it's very soft, it's probabilistic. So it will adapt its probability distribution based on the new data that it's getting.
Elon Musk
Yes. We do have some insight into how good the things will be in like, let's say, three or four months because we have advanced models that are far more capable than what is in the car, but have some issues with them that we need to fix. So they are like there'll be a step change improvement in the capabilities of the car, but it will have some quirks that are – that need to be addressed in order to release it.
As Ashok was saying, we have to be very careful in what we release the fleet or to customers in general. So like – if we look at say 12.4 and 12.5, which are really could arguably even be Version 13, Version 14 because it's pretty close to a total retrain of the neural nets in each case are substantially different. So we have good insight into where the model is, how well the car will perform, in, say, three or four months.
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes. In terms of scaling laws, people in the AI community generally talk about model scaling laws where they increase the model size a lot and then their corresponding gains in performance, but we have also figured out scaling laws and other access in addition to the model side scaling, making also data scaling. You can increase the amount of data you use to train the neural network and that also gives similar gains and you can also scale up by training compute, you can train it for much longer or make more GPUs or more Dojo nodes and that also gives better performance, and you can also have architecture scaling where you count with better architectures that for the same amount of compute for produce better results. So a combination of model size scaling, data scaling, training compute scaling and the architecture scaling, we can basically extract like, okay, with the continue scaling based on this – at this ratio, we can sort of predict future performance.
Obviously, it takes time to do the experiments because it takes a few weeks to train, it takes a few weeks to collect tens of millions of video clips and process all of them, but you can estimate what’s going to be the future progress based on the trends that we have seen in the past, and they’re generally held true based on past data.
Martin Viecha
Okay. Thank you very much. I’ll go to the next question, which is, can we get an official announcement of the time line for the $25,000 vehicle?
Lars Moravy
I think we – Elon mentioned it in the opening remarks. But as you mentioned, we’re updating our future vehicle lineup to accelerate the launch of our low-cost vehicles in a more CapEx efficient way. That’s our mission to get the most affordable cars to customers as fast as possible. These new vehicles we built on our existing lines and open capacity, and that’s a major shift to utilize all our capacity with marginal CapEx before we go spend high CapEx to do anything.
Elon Musk
Yes. We’ll talk about this more on August 8. But really, the way to think of Tesla is almost entirely in terms of solving autonomy and being able to turn on that autonomy for a gigantic fleet. And I think it might be the biggest asset value appreciation history when that day happens when you can do unsupervised full self-driving.
Lars Moravy
5 million cars?
Elon Musk
Yes.
Lars Moravy
A little less?
Elon Musk
Yes. It will be 7 million cars in a year or so and then 10 million and then eventually, we’re talking about tens of millions of cars. Not eventually, it’s like, yes, for the end of the decade, its several tens of millions of cars I think.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The next question is, what is the progress of Cybertruck ramp?
Lars Moravy
I can take that one too. Cybertruck had 1K a week just a couple of weeks ago. This happened in the first four to five months since we SOP [ph] late last year. Of course, volume production is what matters. That’s what drives costs and so our costs are dropping, but the ramp still faces like a lot of challenges with so many new technologies, some supplier limitations, et cetera, and continue to ramp this year, just focusing on cost efficiency and quality.
Martin Viecha
Okay. Thank you. The next question, have any of the legacy automakers contacted Tesla about possibly licensing FSD in the future?
Elon Musk
We’re in conversations with one major automaker regarding licensing FSD.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The next question is about the robotaxi unveil. Elon already talked about that. So we’ll have to wait till August. The following question is about the next-generation vehicle. We already talked about that. So let’s go to the semi. What is the time line for scaling semi?
Elon Musk
I think…
Lars Moravy
So we’re finalizing the engineering of the semi to enable like a super cost-effective high-volume production with our learnings from our fleet and our pilot fleet and Pepsi’s fleet, which we are expanding this year marginally. In parallel, as we showed in the shareholders’ deck, we have started construction on the factory in Reno. Our first vehicles are planned for late 2025 with external customers starting in 2026.
Martin Viecha
Okay. A couple more questions. So our favorite, can we make FSD transfer permanent until FSD is fully delivered with Level 5 autonomy?
Lars Moravy
Yes.
Martin Viecha
Okay. Next question, what is the getting the production ramp at Lathrop, where do you see the Megapack run rate at the end of the year. Mike?
Unidentified Company Representative
Yes. Yes, Lathrop is ramping as planned. We have our second GA line allowing us to increase our exit rate from 20 gigawatt hours per year to – at the start of this year to 40 gigawatt hours per year by the end of the year, that lines commissioned. There’s really nothing limiting the ramp. Its given the longer sales cycles for these large projects, we typically have order visibility 12 months to 24 months prior to ship dates. So we’re able to plan – the build plan several quarters in advance. So this allows us to ramp the factory to align with the business and order growth. Lastly, we’d like to thank our customers globally for their trust in Tesla as a partner for these incredible projects.
Martin Viecha
Okay. Thank you very much. Let’s go to analyst questions. The first question comes from Tony Sacconaghi from Bernstein. Tony, please go ahead and unmute.
Tony Sacconaghi
Thank you for taking the question. I was just wondering if you can elaborate a little bit more on kind of the new vehicles that you talked about today. Are these like tweaks on existing models, given that they’re going to be running on the same lines? Are these like new models? And how should we think about them in the context of like the Model 3 Highland update, what will these models be like relative to that? And given the quick time frame, Model 3 Highland has required a lot of work and a lot of retooling. Maybe you can help put that all in context. Thank you, and I have a follow-up, please.
Elon Musk
I think we've said, we were on that front. So what’s your follow-up?
Tony Sacconaghi
It’s a more personal one for you, Elon, which is that you’re leading many important companies right now. Maybe you can just talk about where your heart is at in terms of your interests and do you expect to lessen your involvement with Tesla at any point over the next three years?
Elon Musk
Tesla constitutes a majority of my work time and I work pretty much every day of the week. It’s rare for me to take a Sunday afternoon. So I’m going to make sure Tesla is quite prosperous. And it is – like it is prosperous and it will be very much so in the future.
Martin Viecha
Okay. Thank you. Let’s go to Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley. Adam, please go ahead and unmute.
Adam Jonas
Okay. Great. Hey, Elon. So you and your team on volume expect a 2024 growth rate, notably lower than that achieved in 2023. But what's your team's degree of confidence on growth above 0%? Or in other words, does that statement leave room for potentially lower sales year-on-year?
Elon Musk
No, I think we'll have higher sales this year than last year.
Adam Jonas
Okay. My follow-up, Elon, on future product. If you had nailed execution, assuming that you nail execution on your next-gen cheaper vehicles, more aggressive giga castings, I don't want to say one piece, but getting closer to one piece, structural pack, unboxed, 300-mile range, $25,000 price point, putting aside robotaxi, those features unique to you. How long would it take your best Chinese competitors to copy a cheaper and better vehicle that you could offer a couple of years from now? How long would it take your best Chinese competitors to copy that? Thanks.
Elon Musk
I mean, I don't know what our competitors could do, except we've done relatively better than they have. If you look at the drop in our competitors in China sales versus our drop in sales, our drop was less than theirs. So we're doing well. But I think Cathy Wood said it best, like really, we should be thought of as an AI or robotics company. If you value Tesla as just like an auto company, you just have to – fundamentally, it's just the wrong framework and it will come to be.
If you ask the wrong question, then the right answer is impossible. So I mean, if somebody doesn't believe Tesla is going to solve autonomy, I think they should not be an investor in the company. Like, that is – but we will and we are. And then you have a car that goes from 10 hours of use a week, like 1.5 hours a day to probably 50%, but it costs the same.
Vaibhav Taneja
I think that's the key thing to remember, right, especially if you look at FSD Supervised, if you didn't believe in autonomy, this should give you a review that this is coming. It's actually getting better day by day.
Elon Musk
Yes. If you've not tried the FSD 12.3, and like I said, 12.4 is going to be significantly better and 12.5 even better than that. And we have visibility into those things. Then you really don't understand what's going on. It's not possible.
Vaibhav Taneja
Yes. And that's why we can't just look at just as a car company because a car company would just have a car. But here, we have more than a car company because the cars can be autonomous. And like I said, it's happening.
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes. This is all in addition to Tesla – the overall AI community is just like increasing – like, improving rapidly.
Elon Musk
Yes. I mean we're putting the actual auto in automobile. So sort of – we go like, well, sort of like tell us about future horse carriages you're making. I'm like, well, actually, it doesn't need a horse that's the whole point. That's really the whole point.
Martin Viecha
Okay, thank you. The next question comes from Alex Potter from Piper Sandler. Alex, please go ahead and unmute.
Alex Potter
Great, thanks. Yes, so I couldn't agree more. The thesis hinges completely on AI, the future of AI, full self-driving neural net training, all of these things. In that context, Elon, you've spoken about your desire to obtain 25% voting control of the company. And I understand completely why that would be. So I'm not necessarily asking about that. I'm asking if you've come up with any mechanism by which you can ensure that you'll obtain that level of voting control. Because if not, then the core part of the thesis could potentially be at risk. So any additional commentary you might have on that topic.
Elon Musk
Well, I think no matter what Tesla, even if I got kidnapped by aliens tomorrow, Tesla will solve autonomy, maybe a little slower, but it would solve autonomy for vehicles at least. I don't know if it would winon with respect to Optimus or with respect to future products, but it would that there's enough momentum for Tesla to solve autonomy even if I disappeared for vehicles.
Yes, there's a whole range of things we can do in the future beyond that. I'll be more reticent with respect to Optimus, if we have a super-sentient humanoid robot that can follow you indoors and that you can escape, we're talking terminator-level risk. And yes, I'd be uncomfortable with. If there's not some meaningful level of influence over how that is deployed. And if there's shareholders have an opportunity to ratify or reratify the sort of competition because I can't say that. That is a fact. They have an opportunity. And yes, we'll see. If the company generates a lot of positive cash flow, we could obviously buy back shares.
Alex Potter
All right. That's actually all very helpful context. Thank you. Maybe one final question and I'll pass it on. OpEx reductions, thank you for quantifying the impact there. I'd be interested also in potentially more qualitative discussion of what the implications are for these headcount reductions. What are the types of activities that you're presumably sacrificing as a result of parting ways with these folks? Thanks very much.
Vaibhav Taneja
So like we said, we've done these headcount reductions across the board. And as companies grow over time, there are certain redundancies. There's some duplication of efforts, which happens in certain areas. So you need to go back and look at where all these pockets are, get rid of it. So we're basically going through that exercise wherein we're like, hey, how do we set this company right for the next phase of growth. And the way to think about it is any tree which grows, it needs pruning. This is the pruning exercise which we went through. And at the end of it, we'll be much stronger and much more resilient to deal with the future because the future is really bright. Like I said in my opening remarks, we just have to get through this period and get there.
Elon Musk
Yes, we're not giving up anything that is significant that I'm aware of. So we've had a long period of prosperity from 2019 to now. And so if a company sort of organizationally is 5% wrong per year, that accumulates to 25%, 30% of inefficiency. We've made some corrections along the way. But it is time to reorganize the company for the next phase of growth and you really need to reorganize it, just like a human when we start off with one cell and kind of zygote, blastocyst and you start growing arms and legs and briefly, you have a tail. And so…
Alex Potter
But you shed the tail.
Elon Musk
You shed the tail, hopefully. And then you're baby, you basically, you have to be the organism – a company is kind of like creature growing. And if you don't reorganize it for different phases of growth, it will fail. You can't have the same organizational structure if you're 10 cells versus 100 cells versus 1 million cells versus 1 billion cells versus 1 trillion cells. Humans are around 35 trillion cells, doesn't feel like it feels like, like one person. But you're basically a walking cell colony of roughly 35 trillion depending on your body mass and about three times that number in bacteria. So anyway, you've got to reorganize the company for a new phase of growth or will fail to achieve that growth.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. Let's go to Mark Delaney from Goldman Sachs. Mark please go ahead and unmute.
Mark Delaney
Yes. Good afternoon. Thanks very much for taking the question. The company previously characterized potential FSD licensing discussions in the early phase and some OEMs had not really been believing in it. Can you elaborate on how much the licensing business opportunity you mentioned today has progressed? And is there anything Tesla needs to achieve with the technology in terms of product milestones in order to be successful at reaching a licensing agreement in your view?
Elon Musk
Well, I think we just need to – it just needs to be obvious that our approach is the right approach. And I think it is. I think we've now with 12.3, if you just have the car drive you around; it is obvious that our solution with a relatively low-cost inference computer and standard cameras can achieve self-driving. No LiDARs, no radars, no ultrasonic nothing.
Vaibhav Taneja
No heavy integration work for vehicle manufacturers.
Elon Musk
Yes. So it really just be a case of having them use the same cameras and inference computer and licensing our software. But once it becomes obvious that if you don't have this in a car, nobody wants your car. It's a smart car. I still remember in, back when Nokia was king of the hill, Yes, crushing. And they certainly come out with a smartphone that was basically a break with limited functionality. And then the iPhone and Android, people still do not understand that all the phones are going to be that way. There's not going to be any flip [ph] phones. If there will be a niche product.
Lars Moravy
Or home phones.
Elon Musk
Yes, no even exactly. When is the last time you saw a home phone.
Lars Moravy
No idea in a hotel, sometimes in hotels.
Elon Musk
Yes, the hotels have them. Yes. So the people don't understand all cars will need to be smart cars, or you will not sell or the car will not – nobody would buy it. Once that becomes obvious, I think licensing becomes not optional.
Mark Delaney
It becomes a method of survival?
Elon Musk
Yes, absolutely, it is. License it or nobody will buy your car.
Vaibhav Taneja
I mean one other thing which I'll add is in the conversations, which we've had with some of these OEMs, I just want to also point out that they take a lot of time in their product life cycle.
Elon Musk
Yes.
Vaibhav Taneja
They're talking about years before they will put it in their product. We might have a licensing deal earlier than that, but it takes a while. So this is where the big difference between us and them is, right?
Elon Musk
Yes, I mean, really a deal signed now would result in it being in a car probably three years.
Vaibhav Taneja
That would be early.
Elon Musk
Yes. That's like lightening basically.
Lars Moravy
That's in eager [ph] OEM.
Elon Musk
Yes. So I wouldn't be surprise if we do sign a deal. I think we have a good chance we do sign a deal this year, maybe more than one. But yes, it would be probably three years before it's integrated with a car. Even though all you need is cameras and our inference computer. So just talking about a massive design change.
Vaibhav Taneja
Yes. And again, just to clarify, it's not the work which we have to do. It's the work which they have to do, which will take the time.
Elon Musk
Yes.
Vaibhav Taneja
Mark, is it helpful?
Mark Delaney
Yes, very helpful. Thank you. My follow-up was to better understand Tesla's approach to pricing going forward. Previously, the company had said that the price reductions were driving incremental demand with how affordable the cars have become, especially for vehicles that have access to IRA credits and some of the leasing offers that Tesla has in place. Do you still see meaningful incremental price reductions as making sense from here for the existing products? And can the company meaningfully lower prices from here and also stay free cash flow positive on an annual basis with the current product set? Thanks.
Elon Musk
Yes. I think we can be free cash flow positive meaningfully.
Lars Moravy
I think Vaibhav said it in his opening remarks, like our cost down efforts, we basically were offsetting the price cut like we’re trying to give it back to the customers.
Elon Musk
Yes. I mean the end of the day, like for any given company, if you sell a great product at a great price – if you have a great product at a great price, the sales will be excellent. That’s true of any area. So over time, we do need to keep making sure that we’re – that it’s a great product at a great price. And moreover, that price is accessible to people.
So it’s not – you have to solve both the value for money and the fundamental affordability question. The fundamental affordability question is sometimes overlooked. If somebody is earning several hundred thousand dollars a year, they don’t think of a car from a fundamental affordability standpoint. But from vast majority of people are living paycheck to paycheck. So it actually makes a difference if the cost per month for lease refinancing is $10 one way or the other. So it is important to keep improving the affordability and to keep making the price.
Lars Moravy
More accessible.
Elon Musk
Yes, exactly. Make the price more accessible, the value for money better, and to keep improving that over time.
Lars Moravy
But also make kick as cost that people want to buy.
Elon Musk
Yes, it’s going to be a great product and at a great price. And the standards for what constitutes great product at a great price keep increasing. So there’s like – you can’t just be static. You have to keep making the car better, improving the price, but improving the cost of production, and that’s what we’re doing.
Vaibhav Taneja
Yes. And in fact, like I said in my opening remarks also, like the revised – the updated Model 3 is a fantastic car. I don’t think people fully even understand that lot of engineering effort which has gone and Lars and team have actually put out videos explaining how much the car is different. I mean it looks and feels different. Not only it looks and feels different. We’ve added so much value to it, but you can lease it for like as low as $299 a month.
Lars Moravy
Without gas.
Vaibhav Taneja
Yes.
Martin Viecha
All right. The next question comes from George from Canaccord. George, please go ahead and unmute.
Unidentified Analyst
Hi, thank you for taking my question. First, could you please help us understand some of the timing of launching FSD in additional geographies, including maybe clarifying your recent comment about China? Thank you.
Elon Musk
I mean like new markets, yes, we are – there are a bunch of markets where we don’t currently sell cars that we should be selling cars in. We’ll see some acceleration of that.
Unidentified Analyst
And FSD new markets?
Elon Musk
Yes. So think about the end-to-end neural net-based autonomy is that just like a human, it actually works pretty well without modification in almost any market. So we plan on – with the approval of the regulators, releasing it as a supervised autonomy system in any market that – where we can get regulatory approval for that, which we think includes China. So yes, it’s – just like a human, you can go rent a car in a foreign country and you can drive pretty well. Obviously, if you live in that country, you’ll drive better. And so we’ll make the car drive better in these other countries with country-specific training. But it can drive quite well almost everywhere.
Vaibhav Taneja
The basics of driving are basically same everywhere like car is a car, the traffic lights, road is the road. Yes.
Elon Musk
It understands that it shouldn’t hit things, no matter what the road rules are.
Vaibhav Taneja
Exactly. There are some road rules that you need to follow. And in China, you shouldn’t cross over a solid line to do a lane change. In U.S. it’s a recommendation I think. In China, you get fined heavily if you do that. We have to do some more actions, but it’s mostly smaller reduction. It’s not like the entire change or type or something.
Elon Musk
Yes.
Martin Viecha
Hey, George, do you have a follow-up?
Unidentified Analyst
Yes. So my follow-up has to do with the first quarter deliveries and I’m curious as to whether or not you feel that supply constraints that you mentioned throughout the release impacted the results and maybe can you help us quantify that? And is that why you have some confidence in unit growth in 2024?
Vaibhav Taneja
Yes. I think we did cover this a little bit in the opening remarks to you. Q1 had a lot of different things which were happening. Seasonality was a big one, continued pressure from the macroeconomic environment. We had attacks at our factory. We had Red Sea attacks, we are ramping Model 3, we’re ramping Cybertruck. All these things are happening. I mean, it almost feels like a culmination of all those activities in a constrained period. And that gives us that confidence that, hey, we don’t expect these things to recur.
Elon Musk
Yes. We think Q2 will be a lot better.
Vaibhav Taneja
Yes.
Lars Moravy
It’s just one thing after another. Our Cybertrucks are crazy. Thank you.
Elon Musk
Yes, exactly. It’s just – if you’ve got cars that are sitting on ships, they obviously cannot delivered to people. And if you’ve got the excess demand for Model 3 and Model Y in one market, but you don’t have it there. It’s quite a – it’s extremely complex logistics situation. So, I’d say also the – we did overcomplicate the sales process, which we’ve just in the past week or so have greatly simplified. So, it became far too complex to buy a Tesla, whereas it should just be you can buy the car in under a minute. So, we’re getting back to that you can buy a Tesla in under a minute interface from what was quite complex.
Martin Viecha
Okay, thank you. Let’s go to Colin Rusch from Oppenheimer. Colin, go ahead and unmute, please.
Colin Rusch
Thanks so much, guys. Given the pursuit of Tesla really as a leader in AI for the physical world, in your comments around distributed inference, can you talk about what that approach is unlocking beyond what’s happening in the vehicle right now?
Elon Musk
Do you want to say something?
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes. Like Elon mentioned like the car even when it's a full robotaxi it's probably going to be used 150 hours a week.
Elon Musk
That's my guess like a third of the hours of the week.
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes. It could be more or less, but then there's certainly going to be some hours left for charging and cleaning and maintenance in that world, you can do a lot of other workloads, even right now we are seeing, for example, these LLM companies have these like batch workloads where they send a bunch of documents and those run through pretty large neural networks and take a lot of compute to chunk through those workloads.
And now that we have already paid for this compute in these cars, it might be wise to use them and not let them be idle, be like buying a lot of expensive machinery and leaving to them be idle. Like we don't want that, we want to use the compute as much as possible and close to like basically 100% of the time to make it a use of it.
Elon Musk
That’s right. I think it's analogous to Amazon Web Services, where people didn't expect that AWS would be the most valuable part of Amazon when it started out as a bookstore. So that was on nobody's radar, but they found that they had excess compute because the compute needs would spike to extreme levels for brief periods of the year and then they had idle compute for the rest of the year. So, then what should they do to pull that excess compute for the rest of the year?
That's kind of...
Ashok Elluswamy
Monetize it
Elon Musk
Yes, monetize it. So, it seems like kind of a no-brainer to say, okay, if we've got millions and then tens of millions of vehicles out there where the computers are idle most of the time that we might well have them do something useful.
Ashok Elluswamy
Exactly.
Elon Musk
And then, I mean, if you get like to the 100 million vehicle level, which I think we will, at some point, get to, then – and you've got a kilowatt of useable compute and maybe your own hardware 6 or 7 by that time. Then you really – I think you could have on the order of 100 gigawatts of useful compute, which might be more than anyone more than any company, probably more than any company.
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes, probably because it takes a lot of intelligence to drive the car anyway. And when it's not driving the car, you just put this intelligence to other uses, solving scientific problems or answer in terms of someone else.
Elon Musk
It's like a human, ideally. We've already learned about deploying workloads to these nodes.
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes. And unlike laptops and our cell phones, it is totally under Tesla's control. So, it's easier to distribute the workload across different nodes as opposed to asking users for permission on their own cell phones to be very tedious.
Elon Musk
Well, you're just draining the battery on the phone.
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes, exactly. The battery is also...
Elon Musk
So like technically, I suppose like Apple would have the most amount of distributed compute, but you can't use it because you can't get the – you can't just run the phone at full power and drain the battery.
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes.
Elon Musk
So, whereas for the car, even if you're a kilowatt level inference computer, which is crazy power compared to a phone. If you've got 50 or 60 kilowatt hour pack, it's still not a big deal to run if you are plugged it – whether you plugged it or not – you could be plugged in or not plugged in, you could run for 10 hours and use 10-kilowatt hours of your kilowatt of compute.
Lars Moravy
Yes. We got built in liquid cold thermal management.
Elon Musk
Yes, exactly.
Lars Moravy
Exactly for data centers, it's already there in the car.
Elon Musk
Exactly. Yes. Its distributed power generation – distributed access to power and distributed cooling, that was already paid for.
Ashok Elluswamy
Yes. I mean that distributed power and cooling, people underestimate that costs a lot of money.
Vaibhav Taneja
Yes. And the CapEx is shared by the entire world sort of everyone wants a small chunk, and they get a small profit out of it, maybe.
Elon Musk
Yes.
Colin Rusch
Thanks so much guys. And just my follow-up is a little bit more mundane. Looking at the 4680 ramp, can you talk about how close you were to target yields and when you might start to accelerate incremental capacity expansions on that technology?
Elon Musk
We're making good progress on that, but I don't think it's super important for at least in the near term. As Lars said, we think it will be, exceed the competitiveness of suppliers by the end of this year and then we'll continue to improve.
Lars Moravy
Yes. I mean, I think it's important to note also that like the ramp right now is relevant to the Cybertruck ramp.
Elon Musk
Yes.
Lars Moravy
And so like we're not going to just randomly build 4680s unless we have a place to put them and so we're going to make sure we're prudent about that, but we also have a lot of investments with all our cell suppliers and vendors. They're great partners, and they've done great development work with us and a lot of the advancements in technologies and chemistry we found 4680, they're also putting into their cells.
Elon Musk
Yes. I mean a big part of the 4680, Tesla doing internal cells was a hedge against what would happen with our suppliers because for a while there it was very difficult because every big carmaker put in massive battery orders, and so the price per kilowatt hour of lithium-ion batteries went to crazy numbers, crazy levels.
Vaibhav Taneja
Bonkers.
Elon Musk
Yes, just bonkers. So like, okay, we've got to have some hedge here to deal with cost per kilowatt hours of numbers that were double what we anticipated. If we have an internal cell production, then we have that hedge against demand shocks, we have too much demand. That's really the way to think about it. It's not like we want to take on a whole bunch of problems just for the hell of it. We did the cell program in order to address the crazy increase in cost per kilowatt hour from our suppliers due to gigantic orders placed by every carmaker on earth.
Martin Viecha
Okay. Thank you. And the last question comes from Ben Kallo from Baird. Ben, go ahead and unmute. Ben, you're still muted.
Elon Musk
Well, I want to say again, we'd just like to strongly recommend that anyone who is, I guess, thinking about the Tesla stock should really drive FSD 12.3. It really – you can't – it's impossible to understand the company if you do not do this.
Martin Viecha
All right. So since Ben is not unmuting. Let's try Shreyas Patil from Wolfe Research. Final question.
Shreyas Patil
Thanks so much. Just Elon, during the Investor Day last year, you mentioned that auto COGS per unit for the next-gen vehicle would decline by 50% versus the current three and Y. I think that was implying something around $20,000 of COGS. About one-third of that was coming from the on-box manufacturing process. But I'm curious if you see an opportunity that the – some of the other drivers around powertrain cost reduction or material cost savings, would those be largely transferable to some of the new products that you're now talking about introducing?
Lars Moravy
Yes, sure. I mean, in short, yes, I mean, like the on-box manufacturing method is certainly great and revolutionary, but with it comes some risks because new production lines and not, but all the subsystems we developed, whether it was powertrains, drive units, battery improvements in manufacturing and automation, thermal systems, seating, integration of interior components and reduction of LV controllers, all that's transferable, and that's what we're doing, trying to get it in their products as fast as possible. And so yes, that engineering work, we're not trying to just throw it away and put a cars and we're going to take it and utilize it and utilize it to the best advantage of the cars we make and the future cars make.
Shreyas Patil
Okay. Great. And then just on that topic of 4680 cells, I know you mentioned it, you really thought of it more as like a hedge against rising battery costs from other OEMs. But it seems even today, it seems like you would have a cost advantage against some of those other automakers. And I'm wondering, given the rationalizing of your vehicle manufacturing plans that you're talking about now, if there's an opportunity to maybe convert the 4680 cells and maybe sell those to other automakers and really generate an additional revenue stream. I'm just curious if you have any thoughts about that.
Elon Musk
Great. What seems to be happening is that the I'm missing something, the orders for batteries from other automakers have declined dramatically. So we're seeing much more competitive prices for sales from our suppliers, dramatically more competitive than in the past. It is clear that a lot of our suppliers have excess capacity.
Vaibhav Taneja
Yes. In addition to what Elon, this is kind of in addition to what Elon said, about 4680, what 4680 did for us from a supply chain perspective was help us understand the supply chain that's upstream of our cell suppliers. So a lot of the deals that we had struck for 4680, we can also supply those materials to our partners, help reducing the overall cost back to Tesla. So we're basically inserting ourselves in the upstream supply chain by doing that. So that's also been beneficial in reducing the overall pricing in addition to the excess capacity that these suppliers have.
Elon Musk
Yes. No, I mean this is going to wax and wane, obviously. So there's going to be a boom and bust in battery cell production where production exceeds supply and then supply exceeds production and back and forth kind of like, I don't know, DRAM or something. But Yes. So it's like what is true today will not be true in the future, there's going to be somewhat of a boom and bust cycle here. And then there are additional complications with government incentives like the Inflation Reduction Act, the IRA, Joe [ph] has found like a funny name.
Vaibhav Taneja
Comical name.
Elon Musk
Yes, it is like Irish Republican Army, The Internet Research Agency from Russia.
Vaibhav Taneja
Independent retirement account.
Elon Musk
Yes, exactly. Roth IRA. It's like Spider-Man situation, which IRA wins. So but it is complicate the incentive structure. So that is there's the stronger demand for cells that are produced in the U.S. than outside the U.S. But then how long is that the IRA last, I don't know.
Vaibhav Taneja
Which is why it's important that we have both internet [ph] cells and vendor cells that hedge against all of this.
Martin Viecha
Okay. Thank you very much. That's all the time we have today. But at the same time, I would like to make a short announcement. And I wanted to let the investment community know that about a month ago, I met up with Elon and Vaibhav and announced that I'll be moving on from the world of Investor Relations. I'll be hanging around for another couple of months or so. So feel free to reach out at any time. But after the seven year sprint, I'm going to be taking a break and spending some good quality time with my family.
And I wanted to say that these seven years have been the greatest privilege of my professional life. I'll never forget the memories from I started literally at the beginning of production hell and just watching the company from the inside to see what it's become today. And especially super thankful to the people in this room and dozens of people outside of this room that I've worked for over the years. I think the team's strength and teamwork at Tesla is unlike anything else I've seen in my career.
Elon, thank you very much for this opportunity that I got back in 2017. Thank you for seeking investor feedback and regularly and debating it with me.
Elon Musk
Yes. Well, I mean the reason I reached out to you was because I thought your analysis of Tesla was the best that I had seen.
Martin Viecha
Thank you.
Elon Musk
So, thank you for helping Tesla to get to where it is today over seven years. It's been a pleasure working with you.
Martin Viecha
Thank you so much. And yes, thank you for all the thousands of shareholders that we've met over the years and walked around factories and loved all the interactions, even the tough ones. And yes, looking forward to the call in the next three months, but I'll be on the other side, listening in. Thank you very much.
Vaibhav Taneja
Thanks.



Tesla, Inc. (NASDAQ:TSLA) Q4 2023 Earnings Conference Call January 24, 2024 5:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Martin Viecha - VP, IR Elon Musk - CEO Vaibhav Taneja - CFO Karn Budhiraj - VP, Supply Chain Lars Moravy - VP, Vehicle Engineering Andrew Baglino - SVP, Powertrain & Energy
Conference Call Participants
Pierre Ferragu - New Street Research Adam Jonas - Morgan Stanley Dan Levy - Barclays Colin Langan - Wells Fargo
Martin Viecha
Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Tesla's Fourth Quarter 2023 Q&A Webcast. My name is Martin Viecha, VP of Investor Relations, and I'm joined today by Elon Musk, Vaibhav Taneja, and a number of other executives. Our Q4 results were announced at about 3.00 pm Central Time in the Update Deck we published at the same link as this webcast.
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in our most recent filings with the SEC. During the question-and-answer portion of today's call, please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Please use the raise hand button to join the question queue.
But before we jump into Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
Elon Musk
Thank you. So the Tesla team did an incredible job in 2023. We achieved record production and deliveries of over 1.8 million vehicles in line with our official guidance. And in Q4, we were producing vehicles at an annualized run rate of almost 2 million cars a year. This is really a phenomenal achievement.
Looking at just the Fremont factory alone, we made 560,000 cars. This is a record. In fact, it's the highest output of automotive plants in North America. And people are often surprised that the highest output factory, car factory in North America is in the San Francisco Bay area. It's a little counterintuitive, perhaps. And it's really had an incredibly positive impact on that entire area.
What would have been a rundown strip mall is the highest productivity car plant in the Americas. Think about that. It was derelict when we got it, and now it's the most productive plant in this entire part of the world. And it's enriched the community in so many different ways. It's really a gem. So I'm super proud of the people that work there.
Model Y became the best-selling vehicle globally, as predicted. The best-selling vehicle of any kind, not just electric vehicles with over 1.2 million units delivered. The energy storage business delivered nearly 15 gigawatt hours of batteries in 2023, compared to 6.5 gigawatt hours the year before. So tremendous year-over-year growth, triple-digits. And yeah, I think we'll continue to see very strong growth in storage, as predicted. I said for many years that the storage business would grow much faster than the car business, and it is doing that.
Free cash flow remains strong at $4.4 billion in 2023, in spite of record spending on future projects. So we had record CapEx expenses as well as record R&D. This brings us to 2024. There's a lot to look forward to in 2024. Tesla is currently between two major growth waves. We're focused on making sure that our next growth wave, driven by next-gen vehicle, energy storage, full self-driving, other projects, is executed as well as possible.
For full self-driving, we've released Version 12, which is a complete architectural rewrite compared to prior versions. This is end-to-end artificial intelligence. So another bit nets basically photons in and controls out, and it really is quite a profound difference. This is currently just with employees and a few customers, but we will be rolling out to all customers in the U.S. who request full self-driving in the weeks to come. That's over 400,000 vehicles in North America.
So this is the first-time AI is being used, not just for object perception, but for path planning and vehicle controls. We replaced 330,000 lines of C++ code with neural nets. It's really quite remarkable. Yeah, sort of, as a side note, I think Tesla is probably the most efficient company in the world for AI inference. Out of necessity, we've actually had to be extremely good at getting the most out of hardware, because Hardware 3 at this point is several years old. So I think we're quite far ahead of any other company in the world in terms of AI and inference efficiency, which is going to be a very important metric in the future in many arenas.
So, the new Model 3 is now available globally. So we did an updated Model 3. While the car looks similar, a lot of work has gone into the vehicle to make it better in every way. It is significantly quieter, more refined, better equipped, has longer range and many other improvements, and I recommend taking it for a test drive. If you have not driven a Model 3 in a long time, you should really try the new one. So, steady improvements.
And we're very far along on our next-generation low-cost vehicle. This is an earnings call, not a product announcement. So there'll no doubt be many questions that try to ask us about new product, new products coming. But we reserve product announcements for product announcements not earning calls. So -- but we're very excited about this, and this is really going to be profound, not just in its design of the vehicle itself, but in the design of the manufacturing system. This is a revolutionary manufacturing system significantly, far more advanced than any other automotive manufacturing system in the world, by a significant margin.
Several years ago, I said, perhaps the most important competitive characteristic of Tesla in the future will be manufacturing technology and you will really see that come to bear with our next-gen vehicle. The first manufacturing location for this will be at our Gigafactory and headquarters in Austin, Texas, and then we'll follow that up with other locations around the world. Probably the factory we'll build in Mexico will be second, and then we'll be looking to identify a third location, perhaps by the end of this year or early next outside of North America.
In conclusion, we had a great year with record production, record deliveries, and a strong free cash flow in spite of a very high interest rate environment. And we are focused on exciting new projects that will -- I think, ultimately if we execute on all these things, and it is very hard to do all these things, it's not a sure thing. But I do see a path where Tesla could one day be the most valuable company in the world. I do emphasize that is not an easy path and a very difficult one, but it is now in the set of possible outcomes and previously I would not have thought it is in the set of possible outcomes.
And thank you, again to all of our investors, our employees, and our suppliers for a strong year, and looking forward to a great 2024 and years to come. Thank you.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. And our CFO, Vaibhav has some opening remarks as well.
Vaibhav Taneja
Thanks, Martin. Good afternoon, everyone. As Elon mentioned, we had a record year in terms of both production and deliveries for our auto business as well as record deployments in our energy business. This was achieved despite 2023 being a challenging year in terms of higher interest rates and higher inflation. Big thanks to our customer for being with us through this challenging period. I would also like to thank the whole Tesla team for their resolve and dedication throughout.
In terms of 2023 financials, we ended the year with over $96 billion of revenue and generated $4.4 billion of free cash flow to end the year with over $29 billion of cash and investments on hand. Our 2023 GAAP net income was impacted by the recognition of one-time non-cash benefit of $5.9 billion from the release of valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. This was due to our recent history of sustained profitability and is similar to several other companies who have recently gone through a similar change in their account. Accordingly, starting with Q1, our book tax rate will now be more in line with other companies in the S&P 500.
In our vehicle business, we continue to see improvements in our per unit cost despite us being in the early phase of Cybertruck ramp. As a result, our auto gross margin improved sequentially. That said, predicting auto gross margins is extremely challenging since there are many moving parts to this equation, some of which are out of our control like the change in tariffs or local incentives to name a few. While the teams are focused on cost reductions, we are approaching the limits within our current platforms.
On the demand front, as promised, we made investments in digital campaigns in 2023. We fully appreciate the importance of customer education as we are still in a customer acquisition phase. Our data suggests that around 90% of our vehicle buyers in 2023 never owned a Tesla before. We are being creative in figuring out ways to bring in new customers and educate them about the benefits of owning a Tesla versus gas-powered vehicles.
The key among them being total cost of ownership. This concept is mostly overlooked for just the upfront cost. We will be rigorous in evaluating our campaigns, curating the content, and optimizing spend accordingly to support the overall demand.
There are two additional things I would like to mention as it relates to the US market. First, for customers who qualify for the IRA buyer credit, we now offer that as a point-of-sale benefit for Model Y, which means an immediate reduction of $7,500 at the time of purchase to the end customer. Secondly, we continue to offer very attractive lease rates for Model 3 and Y using our Partner Leasing Program. Note that the sales under this program are recognized as upfront revenue and reported within automotive sales.
Our energy storage business had another record year with deployments more than doubling and revenues increasing by more than 50%. This business is poised to again surpass our auto business in terms of growth rate in 2024. This has been in the works for quite some time with us laying the foundation a few years back by building our Megafactory in Lathrop. I would like to thank the whole Tesla Energy team for their efforts to make this a reality.
Our services and others business also started contributing meaningfully to our results and our fleets -- as our fleet grows. As we expected the fleet-based revenues from supercharging, used cars, and services continue to increase. For 2024, our focus is to continue growing our output, continuing our cost reduction efforts, and increasing investments in our future growth initiatives. Accordingly, we are currently expecting our capital expenditure for 2024 to be in excess of $10 billion. We believe this would be critical in helping us lay the foundation for the next phase of growth. Once again, I would like to thank everybody at Tesla, our investors, and our suppliers for being with us in this journey.
We can open it up to questions, Martin.
Question-and-Answer Session
A - Martin Viecha
Thank you. Let's go through investor questions. Question number one is from Michael. Given that you moved the start of the next-generation compact vehicle production to Austin, has the timeline improved so that we might see next-generation platform vehicles in 2025?
Elon Musk
I mean, I would certainly say things with they should be taken with a grain of salt, since I am often optimistic. I don't want to blow your minds, but I'm often optimistic regarding time. But our current schedule shows that we will start production towards the end of 2025. So sometime in the second half. That's just what our current schedule says. But there's a lot of new technology like a tremendous amount of new revolutionary manufacturing technology here.
The reason I wanted to put this new revolutionary manufacturing line at Giga Texas was because we really need the engineers to be living on the line. This is not sort of off the shelf, just works type of thing. And it's just a lot easier for Tesla engineering to live online if it's in Austin versus elsewhere. So -- but we are currently expecting to start production second half next year. That will be a challenging production ramp. Like, as I can emphasize we'll be sleeping on the line practically. In fact, not practically. We will be.
But I am confident that once it is going, it will be head and shoulders above any other manufacturing technology that exists anywhere in the world. It's next level. So it's always difficult to predict what that S-curve of manufacturing looks like. So it always starts off real slow, and then it grows exponentially. So -- and predicting that intermediate S-curve is difficult, so I don't know. It's hard to say what the unit volume would be next year. We're not going to make any predictions on that front, but it does seem quite likely that we will start production next year.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The next question is from Michael again. What has been the barrier to ramping 4680 cells into the multi-million cells per week rate and when do you expect to get there?
Elon Musk
Karn?
Karn Budhiraj
Yeah. First, I just want to allay any concerns regarding 4680 limiting the Cybertruck ramp, because I've seen some people commenting about that. To date, 4680 production is ahead of the ramp with actually weeks of finished cell inventory. And the goal is to keep it that way, not only for Cyber, but for our future vehicle programs. And as Elon said, it is an S-curve here too. It's hard to predict these things, but I'm just describing our goals.
Elon Musk
It's a hard problem.
Karn Budhiraj
Yeah.
Elon Musk
There are entire companies where all they do is make battery cells. That's, like, all they do.
Karn Budhiraj
Indeed, indeed.
Elon Musk
We do a lot of other things, and we got a lot of breakthrough technologies that take time to figure out with 46. It's not just that it's a 46 millimeter diameter by 80 millimeter [Indiscernible] cell. That's just the dimensions. There's tremendous amount of new technology in the cell itself.
Karn Budhiraj
And manufacturing technology.
Elon Musk
Yes, exactly.
Karn Budhiraj
And just regarding what the team was able to do in Q4, Texas successfully swapped line one from the Model Y design of the cell to the Cybertruck design of the cell, which was the 10% cell energy increase I've mentioned before. And as with any major new product introduction, the factory and engineering teams collaborated to ensure quality of the new design and the process changes as their first priority. And now our focus returns to cost and production ramp in Q1.
And in terms of what we're doing, we're currently running one production line, one assembly line, using two assembly lines in addition for yield and rate improvement trials, and we have a fourth in commissioning, and four more will be installed starting in Q3 this year. So definitely this is a big year for ramping 4680.
Elon Musk
But we also do want to emphasize that we also expect to ramp orders from our suppliers.
Karn Budhiraj
Yeah.
Elon Musk
So this is not about replacing our suppliers, it's about supplementing our suppliers.
Karn Budhiraj
Yes.
Elon Musk
So we are very appreciative of our suppliers. Panasonic, obviously, is our longest supplier. They're an amazing company. We've got CATL, we've got LG and BYD.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The next question is from Adam. Should retail shareholders be concerned that Elon has stated that he is uncomfortable expanding AI and robotics at Tesla if he doesn't have 25% of voting?
Elon Musk
Yeah, I guess. Let me explain what my concern is here, which is that I see a path to creating an artificial intelligence and robotics juggernaut of truly immense capability and power. And my concern would be, I don't want to control it. But if I have so little influence over the company at that stage that I could sort of be voted out by some sort of random shareholder advisory firm. We've had a lot of challenges with institutional shareholder services, ISS, I call them ISIS, and Glass Lewis, which -- and there's a lot of activists that basically infiltrate those organizations and have strange ideas about what should be done.
So I want to have enough to be influential. Like, if we could do a dual-class stock, that would be ideal. I'm not looking for additional economics. I just want to be an effective steward of very powerful technology. And the reason I just sort of roughly picked approximately 25% was that's not so much that I can control the company, even if I go bonkers and if I'm, like, mad, they can throw me out. But it's enough that I have a strong influence. That's what I'm aiming for, is a strong influence, but not control. If there's some way to achieve that that would be great.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The next question is, what is your expectation for automotive gross margin ex-regulatory credits for the full year?
Vaibhav Taneja
Like, I said in my opening remarks, we're focused on reducing the cost of our vehicles. This is very extensive and involved exercise whereby we look at not just the component cost, but down to the packaging used to get the materials to the production flow. Each element of the cost is scrutinized to optimize further. A few pennies saved at the subcomponent level, whether through engineering redesign or from many other things which I mentioned leads to cost reduction. This is a constant exercise and we just have to chase down every penny possible. We have a strong team which is hyper-focused on this. However, this is a very difficult thing to predict precisely because there are lots of...
Elon Musk
We don't know. We don't have a crystal ball, so it's difficult for us to predict this with precision. If the interest rates come down quickly, I think margins will be good. And if they don't come down quickly, they won't be that good. Yeah. It's always important to remember that the vast majority of people buying a car is about the monthly payment. It's not that people don't want. We have tons of -- we have lots of people who want to buy our car but simply cannot afford it. And as interest rates drop and that monthly payment drops, then they're able to afford it and they buy the car. It's pretty straightforward and there are no tricks around to get around this.
Martin Viecha
Okay. Thank you. The next question is, does the company anticipate a 50% volume CAGR to be realized in either of 2024 or 2025? If not, why not?
Vaibhav Taneja
As we have said in our prior guidance, there will be periods where we won't be growing at the same rate as before. We are between two major growth waves. The first one began with the global expansion of Model 3 and Y, and we believe the next one will be initiated with the next generation platform. In 2024, our volume growth will be lower, as we have said, because we are trying to focus the team on the launch of the next generation vehicle.
Martin Viecha
All right. Thank you very much. The next question is from Michael. When will Tesla start construction on the Giga Nevada expansion and Giga Mexico, and when can we expect each of these to produce their first products such as 4680 cell, Semi, and next-gen vehicles?
Karn Budhiraj
We have recently broken ground for the next phase of Giga Nevada expansion to incorporate Semi and other projects. But as said earlier, as regarding Mexico, we want to first demonstrate success with the next-generation platform in Austin before we start construction. Therefore, we have started the long lead work to get the basics ready and plan to follow our recipe from the 3/Y ramp with Shanghai, where we started with learnings from Fremont and ramp really quickly.
Elon Musk
Yeah, exactly. It's important to emphasize that I mean, Model 3 production was three years of hell, I've said it before, some of the really worst years of my life, frankly. I still have mental scar tissue from those three years, as do many. And then Model Y was somewhat of a variant on Model 3. So a much easier situation. And then we were able to actually do an improved -- slightly improved versions of, in some cases, significantly improved versions of the Model Y production line in Shanghai and Berlin. And that's the right, I think the sensible way to go about things is kind of figure out the core technology of the manufacturing line and then replicate it with improvements throughout the world.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The next question from Michael is, has there been any progress made with an FSD licensing agreement with another company?
Elon Musk
I really think lots of car companies should be asking for FSD licenses. And we've had some tentative conversations, but I think they don't believe it's real quite yet. I think that will become obvious probably this year. And I do want to emphasize that if I were CEO of another car company, I would definitely be calling Tesla and asking to license Tesla full self-driving technology. It's definitely the smart move.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The next question from Siddharth. What is the timeline for Optimus first production off volume production line and what are the barriers to getting there?
Elon Musk
Optimus, obviously, is a very new product, an extremely revolutionary product, and something that I think has the potential to potential to far exceed the value of everything else that Tesla combined. When you think of an economy, economy is productivity per capita times capita. But what if there's no limit to capita? There's no limit to the economy.
And the technologies that we've -- AI technologies that we've developed for the car translate quite well to a humanoid robot because the car is just a robot on four wheels. Tesla is arguably already the biggest robot maker in the world. It's just a four-wheeled robot. So Optimus is a humanoid robot with arms and legs. It's by far the most sophisticated humanoid robot that's being developed anywhere in the world.
I think we've got a good chance of shipping some number of Optimus units next year. But like I said, this is a brand new product. A lot of uncertainty -- when you have -- when there's a lot of uncertainty in your uncharted territory, it's obviously impossible to make a precise prediction. But we will be updating the public with progress on Optimus every few months, and you can see that it's advancing very quickly.
I was just in the Optimus lab, actually, until late last night, like red night or something, finally left the Optimus lab. The team's doing amazing work. That's obviously a case where we want to make sure that Optimus is safe, especially at scale, and that there's no -- it should be impossible for any centralized control to upload malware to a humanoid robot. So we're going to want to pull then localized shut off that cannot be updated from a central server. That's the case where we really have to give extreme thought to safety. But like I said, I do think it has the potential to be the most valuable product of any kind ever, by far.
Karn Budhiraj
Just to comment on the barrier, I think the barrier, and we've talked about this, is like getting it to actually do something useful. Like, we can get it to walk around, we can get it do things, but it's like that utility part.
Elon Musk
We can already do some useful things.
Karn Budhiraj
But like, to making millions of these things, it's like utility. Got to get the utility of it.
Elon Musk
Yeah. A smart robot that can do -- that's capable of doing generalized tasks is what it will be in terms of doing moderately specialized tasks. Well, it can already do that. It'll just get better through the course of the year. As we improve the technology in the car, we improve the technology in Optimus at the same time. It runs the same AI inference computer that's on the car. Same training technology. I mean, we're really building the future. I mean, the Optimus lab looks like the set of Westworld. Admittedly, that was not a super utopian situation.
Karn Budhiraj
Yeah. Not the best reference.
Elon Musk
Yeah. The creators of Westworld, Jonathan Nolan, Lisa Joy Nolan, friends, old friends of mine, actually. And I invited them to come see the lab. I think they'll come see it, hopefully soon. It's pretty wild, especially the sort of subsystem test stands where you've just got like one leg on a test stand, just doing repetitive exercises and one arm on a test stand. Pretty wild. Yeah.
Karn Budhiraj
We're not entering Westworld anytime soon.
Elon Musk
Right. You take safety very, very seriously.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The next question from Nermin is, how many Cybertruck orders are in the queue and when do you anticipate you will be able to fulfill existing orders?
Karn Budhiraj
First of all, I want to thank all the Cybertruck reservation holders for their patience. The reservation to order conversion rates so far has been very, very encouraging. If the trend continues as it very likely to be, we will soon sold out all the builds in 2024. And also, we have new orders come in after the launch. The auto numbers keep growing. So we're now all hands on deck, focused on ramping so we can fulfill all the demands in a reduced wait time.
Elon Musk
Yeah. It's important to emphasize that this is very much a production-constrained situation, not a demand-constrained situation. And obviously, we could dramatically raise the price, but that doesn't feel right to us to sort of gouge people for early delivery. So -- but really, the demand is off the hook. As long as the price is affordable, I mean, I see us ultimately delivering on the order of 0.25 million, something like 0.25 million Cybertrucks a year in North America, maybe more. But give or take roughly on that time frame, and it sure is a head-turner.
Vaibhav Taneja
Definitely is. Anywhere you go, people look at you, they give you thumbs up.
Elon Musk
Yeah. It's like finally, the future. Looks like the future. It's just -- for the other trucks on the road there, which -- there's some very good trucks on the road, but if you were to switch out the brand name, you wouldn't hardly know which company made them, but you definitely would know the Cybertruck. That's our best product ever.
Martin Viecha
All right. Thank you. The next question is, can we get Tesla Energy volumes reported in the production and delivery release?
Karn Budhiraj
Yeah. We will strive to do so starting from this quarter. And just a brief update from the business perspective. Megapack continues to see strong demand signals globally, driving consistent growth trajectory through '24 and '25. We want to thank all of our partners who've put their trust in the Megapack team to execute on critical infrastructure around the world. And I would like to personally thank the Megapack engineering and production teams for their strong 2023 execution. Lathrop continues to ramp through 2024 with the operation of a second final assembly line to double capacity from 20 gigawatt to 40 gigawatt hours by the end of the year.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. And the last investor question is from Siddharth, what are the preliminary results and return on investment of your ads and education campaign? Given that many people still lack awareness that Tesla average price is less than the average non-luxury car price of $45,000, will you expand educational ads?
Unidentified Company Representative
As Elon mentioned, the ultimate solution to increase EV adoption is really address the affordability issue. But at the same time, we do aware there's awareness issue as well. So in Q4, we ran a series of digital campaigns, very targeted digital campaigns across different geos and different channel. The target of these tests is really just to drive awareness and ultimately measure the return of investment on those digital channels. The messaging we're driving has really focused on our product and also try to address some of the misconception of the EV, such as safety, affordability.
And one particular awareness campaign we run in Texas will reach the audience, about 10 million unique viewers, and generated close to 0.5 million visits to our website. A large number of these viewers are first-time visitors to our website. The traffic through these digital channels actually behaved very similar to those organic traffic come to our website. So going forward, we're just going to keep exploring different channels and doing our trials to get a better understanding of this effectiveness of these digital campaigns.
Vaibhav Taneja
But I would also like to caution that we'll be very careful that we don't want to overspend on this side. We want to make sure people are aware. But that's where we'll keep tweaking our methodology about how and where we spend the money. Because we understand the importance of increasing awareness, but at the same token, we don't want to spend a lot of money on just creating awareness.
Elon Musk
Yeah. I mean, there are some geographies where our market share is remarkably low. Like Japan, for example. Now, we also need to make sure that we have superchargers in the right locations and the service centers are there, and the product works well in Japan. But Japan is the third largest car market in the world of any country, and we should at least have a market share proportionate to, say, other non-Japanese car makers like Mercedes or BMW, which we do not currently have. So I think that's a case -- when I talk to friends of mine in Japan, they're like -- there is quite a lack of awareness of Tesla. So that's a case where we definitely need to increase awareness in countries and regions where there is, yeah, not that much awareness.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. Let's go to analyst questions. The first question comes from Pierre Ferragu from New Street Research. Pierre, go ahead, please. Feel free to unmute. Pierre, can you hear us?
Pierre Ferragu
Okay. Wow. It's really tough to find the unmute button on Team's guide. I'm sorry for being late. So, yes, my question would on the cost reduction, you've talked about it already a lot. And if I look at it, over the last like, five, six quarters, on average, the COGS per car has been coming down, like, more than 2% sequentially, on average. So that means you are, like, on a trajectory of COGS per car going down 10% a year. So that's probably, like, unheard of in the auto industry. I don't think any car manufacturer ever achieved that. But that's very mundane, and it's a good performance, but it's a very normal performance in a lot of other manufacturing industry, like microelectronics or consumer electronics.
And so I'd love to hear your thoughts about whether you consider yourself closer to the latter to, like, a microeconomics business where you have this ability to actually always improve costs. You have more control on how things are pulled together into your cars, and you see yourself sustainably taking costs down with that kind of pace or do you think your ability to take down cost is actually going to become more like in line with the rest in the industry over time?
Vaibhav Taneja
Yeah. I think I covered this in a pretty lengthy detail, even in my opening remarks and in a previous question. But to just further clarify, we are constantly looking for what we can do to reduce cost. Like I said, it's a game of pennies. We've talked about it before as well. And the team is constantly going and checking, where can we reduce the cost further. And do I believe that we will have the same pace which you've seen over the past few years? Probably not, because remember, we were coming out with a period wherein commodity prices were rising, so then we did see benefits coming from that. So those are more or less taken care of. But there is more which we're still chasing.
And I would say a big kudos goes to the team out here at Tesla, both the engineering team as well as the supply chain team, because every time we give them a challenge, they go gangbusters to try and figure out whatever they can to take out further cost. But yes, I would -- like I said, I would want to caution that do not project the previous cost reduction at the same pace completely in the future, because with our current platform, we are getting to a place wherein there are limitations.
Karn Budhiraj
Yeah. The increased scale also sort of helps us there. As we introduce new products, we have the opportunity to go renegotiate existing suppliers for better pricing. We're looking at every penny, like Vaibhav and Elon mentioned. Just to give you an example, our inbound logistics cost has come down by 22% year-over-year. And this is because of optimization on using returnable packaging as opposed to cardboard, which is even better for the environment, optimizing trucking routes, negotiating better pricing with shipping companies, with trucking companies, going with full truckloads and just doing that, sort of. The bigger we become, the more we put thought into these things and the more efficient we become as a result of it. So those work streams are going to continue.
Unidentified Company Representative
And we are also getting into the tiers of supply chain to see if there are opportunities, getting into the tier 2, tier 3, tier 4 levels, and then negotiate those pricing as well to get more efficiency out of the system.
Karn Budhiraj
And then on the design side, we're not static, right, like, especially in areas where the technology is still improving rapidly. Power electronics is a great example. We continue to bring improvements there that are like fundamentals, sort of driven from the device up, that result in cost reductions, generation over generation. And they don't only go into the new vehicles, they come to the old vehicles as well. So that's closer to what you were talking about with the microelectronic space. Some of that exists in the vehicle.
Lars Moravy
Yeah. Certainly our car is more computer than car in many ways and has a lot of new tech over the last 100 years of automotive production that everyone's trying to scrape pennies from.
Elon Musk
We have a crazy amount of compute in our cars compared to anyone else. It's like orders of magnitude.
Karn Budhiraj
And we get to ride that down, right?
Elon Musk
1,000 times more. Some nutty number.
Karn Budhiraj
I mean, if I just look at the main microcontroller that makes the motor truck go, for example, when I think about what it costs when we stuck it in a roadster in 2006, it costs now. There's no comparison. So we've definitely been riding that electronics cost wave.
Elon Musk
Yeah.
Lars Moravy
And then even on the like non -- what you call traditional vehicle side, we do things that no other automakers do to bring cost down through breaking down the way structures are built and the way we put our cars together. And I think that mindset that we have is very much closer to the microprocessor or power electronics industry than the automotive industry.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. Pierre, do you have a follow-up?
Pierre Ferragu
Great. Yes, a quick one. You mentioned this phase in which you are between two big growth periods. I'd love to hear you about what you consider the size of your addressable market. With the portfolio you have today, like the three, the Y, the X, and the S, what's your estimate of your addressable market? You're shipping like, probably about like a 2 million unit run rate today and given the price points of these cars, what kind of market share of what you address with these cars do you think you've already achieved today?
Elon Musk
I don't know, if anybody -- I actually don't think we have a firm idea of this. That's hard to say exactly.
Vaibhav Taneja
Yeah. This -- I won't say there's -- I mean, one way to think about it is look at the automotive industry as well. EVs still contribute a very small market share. So, yes, our goal is to try and take as much market share out of that pie. But do I have a specific number to give you? I don't think we can say that with certainty.
Andrew Baglino
And it's a growing pie as well.
Vaibhav Taneja
Exactly
Andrew Baglino
It's like its 9% today, but it could be 20% in a couple of years or in the future.
Elon Musk
Yeah.
Andrew Baglino
Certainly, like the way we've looked at it, and we've always said this, it's not about how many EVs we sell. It's how many great cars you can sell, how many vehicles you can sell. And that market is 100 million a year, and we're barely 2% of that. I still think there's 98% more to get.
Elon Musk
I mean, it's worth noting that if you look at, say, the average selling price of the other top-selling vehicles in the world, they are much lower priced than a Model Y.
Andrew Baglino
Yeah.
Elon Musk
So like Toyota RAV4.
Andrew Baglino
Corolla.
Elon Musk
Corolla, Honda Civic, that kind of thing. They're much lower priced than ours. So people are really stretching their wallets to be able to afford a Tesla. It's quite a difficult thing for them to do, and remarkable that it's the best-selling car in unit volume, despite being much more expensive than other high-volume cars.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. Let's go to the next analyst. The next question comes from Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley.
Adam Jonas
Hey, everybody. So I can't wait to see the Optimus lab. I'm sure everybody on this call feels the same way. Your last AI Day, Elon, was September 2022. Can we expect a Tesla AI Day this year? It seems like a lot has changed in that realm. And is this year the time?
Elon Musk
Yeah, it's a good question. We have found that when we do these AI Days, some of our competitors literally look at what we do on a frame-by-frame basis.
Adam Jonas
They do.
Elon Musk
And then we find these things being copied.
Karn Budhiraj
Same thing with Battery Day.
Elon Musk
Same thing with Battery Day. So we have to be a little cautious about revealing the exact recipe of the secret sauce. But I think some kind of update would be good to do. I'll talk it over with the team, and yeah, I think we might do something later this year. Our main goal with these AI Day things is recruiting and to sort of change the perception of Tesla as people thinking of Tesla as a car company when they should be thinking of Tesla as an AI robotics company.
Adam Jonas
Maybe as a follow-up. Elon, I'd love your thoughts on the topic of China-based OEMs expanding into Western markets. As the China market kind of gets saturated and there's a tremendous growth in the supply, how much success should Tesla investors allow for this competition to achieve in Western markets? And can you envision a scenario where Tesla could partner with a Chinese OEM to help accelerate sustainable transport in markets like Europe and the United States? Thanks.
Elon Musk
Well, our observation is generally that the Chinese car companies are the most competitive car companies in the world. So I think they will have significant success outside of China depending on what kind of tariffs or trade barriers are established. Frankly, I think if there are not trade barriers established, they will pretty much demolish most other car companies in the world. So they're extremely good.
We don't see an obvious opportunity to partner. Certainly, we're happy to, except on the supercharger front. We're obviously happy to give any electric car company access to our supercharger network. We're also happy to license full self-driving, perhaps license other technologies, and anything that could be helpful in advancing the sustainable energy revolution.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. And the next question comes from Dan Levy from Barclays.
Dan Levy
Hi. Good evening. Thank you for taking the questions. First, I'm wondering if you can just walk through some of the gating factors required to unlock your next-gen platform. You talked about a number of cost initiatives back at the Investor Day a year ago, things in manufacturing and powertrain. Maybe you can just give us a sense of where these initiatives stand.
And do you believe -- we know that there's a number of new features and technologies in Cybertruck, things like 48 volts architecture, really employing your 4680 batteries. To what extent do you think Cybertruck is really a proving ground for the next-gen platform and is really going to be a gating factor to unlocking the cost reductions needed for the next-gen platform?
Lars Moravy
Yeah, I don't think that anything on Cybertruck should be considered gating for the next-gen platform. We're obviously doing a lot of manufacturing innovation, as Elon said, for a next-generation vehicle. When you do something at that scale, you have to prove it out. You don't just throw it on the line and just build it. So we're going through those validation phases for all those new manufacturing technologies now. Sure, 48 volts was definitely something we wanted to carry forward, and it's something we hope the industry adopts as well. We're also open to partnering.
Elon Musk
Yeah. 48 volts.
Lars Moravy
On that if everyone wants to do that.
Elon Musk
Certainly. Man, the people that really know that this is like the inside baseball thing. But man, 48, it's so high time that the water industry moved from the 12 -- the random number of 12 volts to 48 volts.
Lars Moravy
Random number of 48 volts.
Elon Musk
Yeah. Well, it's much less random.
Lars Moravy
Slightly less random based on human injury, but...
Elon Musk
I mean dramatically reduces the amount of copper you need in the vehicle and also moving to sort of higher bandwidth communications, sort of ethernet level communications versus CAN Bus, which is pretty...
Lars Moravy
Pretty slow.
Elon Musk
Pretty slow. So it's really just bringing cars to...
Lars Moravy
The 21st century.
Elon Musk
Yeah, pretty much.
Lars Moravy
So, certainly like...
Elon Musk
It's not exact -- it's like normal for a laptop. Yeah.
Lars Moravy
Certainly bringing that like is an evolution in our architectures of vehicles, but it's not gating by any means. The gating work is just to finish the design and manufacturing of the car, test them out and get them going.
Karn Budhiraj
Yeah, programs and execution mode, right?
Lars Moravy
Yeah.
Karn Budhiraj
So it's talking about like, tooling lead time, manufacturing equipment lead time, factory lead time, and executing those programs.
Elon Musk
There's a lot of specialized machines that make the machine for a next-gen vehicle. So these are not machines you can just order from anyone. You have to design a machine that has never existed to build a car in a way that has never existed.
Karn Budhiraj
Yeah. So you don't just have like a design validation phase, but you have an equipment design validation phase as well.
Elon Musk
It does make it very hard to copy us because you have to copy the machine that makes the machine that makes the machine.
Lars Moravy
Talk about tiers.
Elon Musk
Yeah, exactly. Manufacturing exception. So I do think it's quite a powerful sustainable advantage because there just is no place to go to order the machines that make our next-gen car that don't exist.
Dan Levy
Great. Thank you. As a follow-up, your release does not mention Dojo. So if you could just provide us an update on where Dojo stands and at what point you expect Dojo to be a resource in improving FSD or do you think that you now have sufficient supply of Nvidia GPUs needed for the training of the system?
Elon Musk
I mean, the AI hardware question is, that is a deep one. So we're obviously hedging our bets here with significant orders of Nvidia GPUs. Or GPU is the wrong word. There really needs to be -- there's no -- it doesn't -- you can't produce graphics, so that's what. It's not a graphics processing unit. Neural net processing unit or something like that.
Yeah. GPU is a funny word, like Vestigial. A lot of our progress in self-driving is training limited, something that's important with training, it's much like a human. The more effort you put into training, the less effort you need in inference. So just like a person, if you train in a subject, sort of classic 10,000 hours, the less mental effort it takes to do something.
If you remember when you first started to drive, how much of your mental capacity it took to drive. It was -- you had to be focused completely on driving. Then after you've been driving for many years, it only takes a little bit of your mind to drive and you can think about other things and still drive safely. So the more training you do, the more efficient it is at the inference level. So we do need a lot of training.
And we're pursuing the dual path of Nvidia and Dojo. But I would think of Dojo as a long shot. It's a long shot worth taking because the payoff is potentially very high. But it's not something that is a high probability. It's not like a sure thing at all. It's a high-risk, high-payoff program. Dojo is working, and it is doing training jobs, and we are scaling it up, and we have plans for Dojo 1.5, Dojo 2, Dojo 3, and whatnot. So I think it's got potential, but I can't emphasize enough. High risk, high payoff.
So I think it still makes sense given the -- even if it's a low probability of success -- I'm laboring the subject. It's a very interesting program. It has the potential for something special. There's also our inference hardware in the car. So we're now on what's called Hardware 4, but it's actually Version 2 of the Tesla-designed AI inference chip. And we're about to complete design of -- the terminology is a bit confusing. We're about to complete design of Hardware 5, which is actually Version 3 of the Tesla-designed chip. Because the Version 1 was Mobileye, Version 2 was Nvidia, and then Version 3 was Tesla.
And we're making gigantic improvements from Hardware 3 to Hardware 4 to Hardware 5. I mean, there's a potentially interesting play where when cars are not in use in the future that the in-car computer can do generalized AI tasks, can run a sort of GPT-4 or GPT-3 or something like that. If you've got tens of millions of vehicles out there, even in a robotaxi scenario where they're in heavy use, maybe they're used 50 out of 168 hours, that still leaves well over 100 hours of time available -- of compute hours. It's possible with the right architectural decisions that Tesla may in the future have more compute than everyone else combined.
Martin Viecha
Thank you. The next question comes from Colin Langan from Wells Fargo.
Colin Langan
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. As we're thinking about going into 2024, the press release talks about hitting 36,000 or slightly above in Q4. And the comments in the release talk about approaching the natural limits. And it sounds like you're continuing to try to whittle that away, but that sort of implies there's not much left.
In addition, you have the hourly wage increase. I guess we'll add to that into next year. And I thought you said raw material costs are kind or -- that benefit is sort of almost played out. So is there an opportunity to continue to go below the 36,000, or should we kind of be modeling that it kind of stays at this level into '24?
Vaibhav Taneja
We are definitely aware of the cost increases which are coming through because of the wage increases. But like I said, we keep looking at other cost opportunities and try and figure out where else can we cut down. So there is definitely more opportunity to bring down costs further. I won't specifically guide to a number which we will try and get to, but there's definitely more opportunity there.
Andrew Baglino
Yeah. We're chasing lots of cost opportunities on the design side still for 2024, north of eight figures is what we're just in my organization, and Lars has got a bunch. And then from a commodities perspective, it's such a long cycle time through the whole material supply chain that even with what we've already seen to this point...
Vaibhav Taneja
There's more to come.
Andrew Baglino
There's more to come on commodities reductions.
Lars Moravy
And there's still some tailwind left on the commodities.
Andrew Baglino
That's what I mean.
Lars Moravy
Aluminum and steel.
Andrew Baglino
Yeah and battery material.
Elon Musk
It boggles my mind to think that if we make a 1% improvement in costs, that's $1 billion. So it's like, on average, if we reduce the cost by one penny, $1 billion.
Andrew Baglino
What?
Elon Musk
And we started off that long ago that we were only making like 10 cars a week. And yeah, so where does it lead ultimately? With good execution, like I said, it's not a slam dunk, but if we execute very well, I think Tesla could be the most valuable company in the world.
Martin Viecha
Thank you, Colin. Do you have a follow-up question?
Colin Langan
Yeah. Just a quick follow-up. In the commentary, you mentioned the taxes would go to the S&P 500 level. I think you've been trending slightly below 10%. S&P, I think, is typically 25%-ish. Is that going to -- should we expect that to jump right up next year when we're modeling next year or would it be like a gradual change over the next few years and any cash impact from that tax change as well that we should be considering?
Vaibhav Taneja
Yeah. So there's no impact on cash taxes from the release of the valuation amounts, which I spoke about. What it does is, it's how you account for taxes on your books? So it's basically an accounting change wherein there are certain jurisdictions because we had enough NOLs, etc., wherein we didn't have to accrue book taxes. Now that the valuation allowance has been released and we have recognized deferred tax assets on the books, that means your tax rate immediately goes up.
Martin Viecha
Okay. I think that's all the time we have for today. Thank you so much for all of your questions, and we'll speak to you again in three months. Thank you. Bye-bye.
Elon Musk
Thank you.

