Date: 2023-12-19
For the second time in a week, Google parent Alphabet (GOOG) is in the headlines for a negative litigation event as the tech giant agreed to pay $700 mln to resolve an antitrust case against its Google Play platform. The settlement comes on the heels of a landmark victory for Fortnite maker Epic Games, which sued GOOG for anticompetitive practices related to the fees that GOOG charges app developers to access Google Play.Interestingly, Epic Games rejected the $700 mln settlement that was made public today but was actually reached in September, believing that the agreement didn't go far enough to rein in GOOG's anticompetitive position against developers. Despite losing a similar case against Apple (AAPL) in 2021, Epic Games forged ahead with its own lawsuit against GOOG. This time, though, a jury provided the verdict, rather than a single judge as was the case in the AAPL litigation.GOOG has vowed to appeal the decision, but if it's unsuccessful, the loss to Epic Games could have even more significant implications than the $700 mln settlement that was disclosed today. If the judge in the Epic Games comes down hard on GOOG, the company could be forced to make even greater changes to its Play Store. As it currently stands, GOOG will now allow developers to use an alternative billing system to charge uses, but the fees for that billing system are only about 4% less than GOOG's standard fees.Investors don't seem overly concerned, though, about these developments. The primary reason why is that Google Play makes up a tiny amount of the company's overall revenue. In Q3, total revenue for GOOG's Other Bets segment, which includes Play, declined by 35% yr/yr to $288 mln, representing less than 4% of its total revenue.In comparison, Google advertising accounted for over 80% of total revenue in Q3 at $54.7 bln. A major threat to this business would have a profound impact on GOOG's stock, and there is indeed a potential danger on the horizon.Three years ago, The Justice Department and a group of states sued GOOG, claiming that the company -- with a market share of approximately 90% in search -- has an online advertising monopoly and is restricting competition. That case, which went to trial this past September, alleges that GOOG illegally pays mobile phone companies such as AAPL, Samsung (SSNLF), and Verizon (VZ) to make its search engine the default option on devices. Like the Epic Games vs. Apple case, the verdict in this case will be decided by a single judge (U.S. District Judge Amit Mehta), who could enforce new constraints on how GOOG partners up with other large tech companies.The main takeaway is that while these litigation developments are generating plenty of negative headlines for GOOG, they don't have a significant effect on the company's financials or fundamentals -- at least, not yet. That could change depending on how the case against its advertising business plays out, but for the time being, market participants are shrugging off the court losses and are focusing instead on GOOG's growing AI aspirations.Copyright (C) 2023 Briefing.com

Date: 2024-01-31
Expectations were sky-high heading into Alphabet's (GOOG) 4Q23 earnings report as the anticipation of improving advertising demand and the rollout of AI technologies, including the company's new Gemini large language model, drove shares to record highs this week. In many ways, it was indeed a strong quarter for GOOG as growth accelerated in both its core advertising and cloud businesses, leading to its fourth consecutive top and bottom-line beat.However, the upside performance was not enough to stave off a sell-the-news reaction as investors lock in profits. In addition to taking some risk off the table ahead of today's FOMC decision, there are a couple items from the earnings report that may be causing the weakness.Although revenue growth did improve for Search and Cloud, increasing by 12.7% and 26%, respectively, compared to growth of 11% and 22% last quarter, there was some cause for disappointment. Search revenue of $48.0 bln slightly missed expectations, and Cloud's growth still lagged behind Microsoft (MSFT) Azure's growth of 30%.Rewinding to Q3, Cloud's slowing growth was under the spotlight, fueling concerns that it was falling further behind Azure. The reacceleration in growth this quarter is reassuring in our view, especially since operating income jumped by over 200% qtr/qtr to $864 mln, but the slight divergence in growth relative to Azure may again be contributing to the stock's decline.Furthermore, a major catalyst underlying the stock's 55% yr/yr gain is tied to GOOG's expanding AI capabilities and how that will reignite the company's growth. Both Gemini and Bard, GOOG's conversational AI tool, were focal points during last night's earnings call, with CEO Sundar Pichai commenting that GOOG is seeing strong interest from advertisers for its AI-powered solutions. The problem, though, is that there is little clarity regarding the future financial impact of these products.Compounding the issue, GOOG is significantly ramping up its capital expenditures to develop AI technologies and that is expected to continue this year. In fact, capital expenditures increased by nearly $3.0 qtr/qtr in Q4 and CFO Ruth Porat commented that capital expenditures in 2024 will be "noticeably larger" compared to 2023.There were still some notable positives from GOOG's earnings report. Bolstered by ongoing strength in the retail vertical, especially in the APAC region, the advertising business was healthy with revenue up 11% yr/yr to $65.5 bln. YouTube particularly stood out as revenue growth accelerated to 16.5% from 11.3% in Q3.Another key highlight from the earnings call was the revelation that paid subscriptions now generate $15.0 bln in revenue annually. This is up 5x compared to 2019 and is driven by the success of YouTube Premium Music and Connected TV, which offers NFL Sunday Ticket.Overall, GOOG delivered a solid earnings report as EPS surged by 56% yr/yr on stronger revenue growth across the business. However, with shares trading at all-time highs ahead of the report, there's a sense that the stock may have gotten ahead of itself as GOOG's AI technologies aren't quite ready to move the needle on the top-line.Copyright (C) 2024 Briefing.com

Date: 2024-04-09
Alphabet's (GOOG +2%) reported plan to bolster its in-house chip production is boosting its shares to all-time highs today, building on healthy gains over the past two trading sessions. The WSJ reported that GOOG is looking to manufacture more semiconductors under its roof, expanding on its first semi-custom mobile chip, Tensor, which debuted in 2020 on the Google Pixel 6. The new chip would be labeled Axion and primarily used for cloud AI workloads. The move would decrease GOOG's reliance on third-party chips, following rivals such as Apple (AAPL), which cut ties with Intel (INTC) several years ago, launching its in-house chip, the M1 in 2020, and Microsoft (MSFT), which is designing Azure chips for the cloud. GOOG commented that its strategy to limit its dependency on third-party chip makers like INTC and NVIDIA (NVDA) was not so much to compete with these titans but rather coexist in the industry, specifically surrounding AI.  Like its counterparts, GOOG would not be making any chips. Instead, it designs the chips and still relies on Intel or Taiwan Semi (TSM) to manufacture the products using GOOG's design. The result, like in the case of Tensor, can be efficiency and productivity gains, which are essential when embedding more AI features in devices.  For Axion, GOOG is reportedly tapping Arm (ARM) for the architecture, noting that it boasts superior performance to x86 architecture, the standard used by INTC. TSM will likely produce the chips, partly explaining why its shares are climbing today. While GOOG would still depend on foundries for manufacturing, its move would be entering into competition with AI chip leaders, such as NVDA, Advanced Micro (AMD), and, to a lesser extent, INTC, all of which have seen demand spikes for AI chips. With their stocks not reacting strongly to the news, the market is not overly concerned about GOOG encroaching on their leadership positions. Still, it is something to keep an eye on, especially given the magnitude of GOOG's cloud presence, which could translate to a significant loss if GOOG begins leaning on its chips over those from competitors. Meanwhile, suppliers Broadcom (AVGO) and Qualcomm (QCOM) could benefit meaningfully if GOOG leverages their technology for expanded in-house chip production. AVGO already supplies GOOG's Tensor chips, which has lifted its custom-chip business significantly. Similarly, QCOM recently expanded its partnership with GOOG, which revolves around mixed reality.  GOOG's plans to move more production in-house would help streamline its supply chain, reduce reliance on outsiders like NVDA, whose chips have grown expensive as AI demand continues accelerating, and bring notable efficiency enhancements. By utilizing Arm for the architecture, GOOG is making it easy for customers to adopt its new chips as competitors Amazon (AMZN) and MSFT built Arm-based CPUs for their cloud services. As such, we like the move and would not be surprised to see GOOG continue expanding its in-house chip production in the future, especially as the race to lead in AI intensifies.Copyright (C) 2024 Briefing.com

Date: 2024-04-26
Like Meta Platforms (META), which saw its stock dive lower yesterday after sharply raising its FY24 capex guidance, Google (GOOG) is ramping up its investments to build out its AI technologies, including Gemini 1.5. While both tech giants are benefitting from those investments, GOOG's blowout Q1 results suggest that it's seeing a greater and more immediate impact. In fact, during META's earnings call, CEO Mark Zuckerberg acknowledged that it could take years before the company's investments fully pay off and generate meaningful returns.That doesn't appear to be the case with GOOG, which beat analysts' expectations across the board, calming investors' and analysts' fears that the emergence of generative AI will sink its bread-and-buter search business.In Q1, Google Search and Other revenue increased by 14.4% yr/yr to $46.2 bln, comfortably exceeding estimates. For more than a year, the retail vertical has been a source of strength for Search, particularly in the APAC region, and that continued into Q1.YouTube had a very strong quarter, as well, with ad revenue jumping by 21% yr/yr to $8.09 bln, driven by both direct response and brand advertising. Furthermore, Shorts -- which is GOOG's answer to TikTok's short-format videos -- continues to gain traction as the monetization rate relative to viewing has more than doubled in the past twelve months.Overall, Google's advertising business saw a solid 13.0% increase in revenue to $61.6 bln, illustrating that advertising spending remains healthy. Perhaps more importantly, though, in the big picture for GOOG, is that the strong performance for Search and advertising indicates that AI may be an asset rather than a threat to the business. During the earnings call, Senior Vice President and Chief Business Officer Philipp Schindler explained that AI is a core facet across the ads ecosystem, including in ad targeting, bidding, measurement, and ad creation. As an example, Mr. Schindler discussed how Gemini -- GOOG's AI model -- was integrated into Performance Max, the company's automated, AI-powered campaign, in February and has delivered promising results. Currently available to all U.S. advertisers, Performance Max users are 63% more likely to publish a campaign with good or excellent ad strength. Advertisers with excellent ad strength see 6% more conversions, on average.Turning to Cloud, AI is having an even more profound effect as revenue increased by 28.5% to $9.57 bln, easily beating expectations, and up from last quarter's growth of 26%. The upswing in Cloud growth is a key catalyst for the stock's surge today because this business has been viewed as a laggard compared to competitors Microsoft (MSFT) Azure and Amazon (AMZN) Web Services. AI is playing a major role here, too, as GOOG inroduced Gemini for Meetings and Messaging in Google Workspace, and added Gemini Security for Workspace. Even with these AI-based investments, Cloud's operating income surged by $900 mln from $191 mln in the year-earlier period.The cherry on top is that GOOG also initiated its first dividend program, declaring a cash dividend of $0.20/share, while also authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional $70.0 bln of stock. Along with its impressive Q1 results, the shareholder-friendly actions are inspiring confidence that GOOG will not only survive in the AI era, but that it will thrive in it.Copyright (C) 2024 Briefing.com


ITEM 1.BUSINESS
Overview
As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history, inspiring us to tackle big problems and invest in moonshots. It led us to be a pioneer in the development of AI and, since 2016, an AI-first company. We continue this work under the leadership of Alphabet and Google CEO, Sundar Pichai.
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud, and all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Alphabet's structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. 
Access and Technology for Everyone
The Internet is one of the world’s most powerful equalizers; it propels ideas, people, and businesses large and small. Our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful is as relevant today as it was when we were founded in 1998. Since then, we have evolved from a company that helps people find answers to a company that also helps people get things done. 
We are focused on building an even more helpful Google for everyone, and we aspire to give everyone the tools they need to increase their knowledge, health, happiness, and success. Google Search helps people find information and make sense of the world in more natural and intuitive ways, with trillions of searches on Google every year. YouTube provides people with entertainment, information, and opportunities to learn something new. Google Assistant offers the best way to get things done seamlessly across different devices, providing intelligent help throughout a person's day, no matter where they are. Google Cloud helps customers solve today’s business challenges, improve productivity, reduce costs, and unlock new growth engines. We are continually innovating and building new products and features that will help our users, partners, customers, and communities and have invested more than $150 billion in research and development in the last five years in support of these efforts.
Making AI Helpful for Everyone
AI is a transformational technology that can bring meaningful and positive change to people and societies across the world, and for our business. At Google, we have been bringing AI into our products and services for more than a decade and making them available to our users. Our journey began in 2001, when machine learning was first incorporated into Google Search to suggest better spellings to users searching the web. Today, AI in our products is 
4. 



Alphabet Inc.

used by billions of people globally through features like autocomplete suggestions in Google Search; translation across 133 languages in Google Translate; and organization, searching, and editing in Google Photos.
Large language models (LLMs) are an exciting aspect of our work in AI based on deep learning architectures, such as the Transformer, a neural network architecture that we introduced in 2017 that helped with language understanding. This led to the Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers, or BERT, in 2019 that helped Search understand the intent of user search queries better than ever before.
Google was a company built in the cloud, and we continue to invest in our Google Cloud offerings, including Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace, to help organizations stay at the forefront of AI innovation with our AI-optimized infrastructure, mature AI platform and world-class models, and assistive agents.
We believe AI can solve some of the hardest societal, scientific and engineering challenges of our time. For example, in 2020, Google DeepMind’s AlphaFold system solved a 50-year-old protein folding challenge. Since then, we have open-sourced to the scientific community 200 million of AlphaFold’s protein structures which are used to work on everything from accelerating new malaria vaccines to advancing cancer drug discovery and developing plastic-eating enzymes. As another example, AI can also have a transformative effect on climate progress by providing helpful information, predicting climate-related events, and optimizing climate action. Using advanced AI and geospatial analysis, Google Research has developed flood forecasting models that can provide early warning and real-time flooding information to communities and individuals. 
As AI continues to improve rapidly, we are focused on giving helpful features to our users and customers as we deliver on our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. With a bold and responsible approach, we continue to take the next steps to make this technology even more helpful for everyone.
Deliver the Most Advanced, Safe, and Responsible AI
We aim to build the most advanced, safe, and responsible AI with models that are developed, trained, and rigorously tested at scale powered by our continued investment in AI technical infrastructure. In December 2023, we launched Gemini, our most capable and general model. It was built from the ground up to be multimodal, which means it can generalize and seamlessly understand, operate across, and combine different types of information, including text, code, audio, images, and video. Our teams across Alphabet will leverage Gemini, as well as other AI models we have previously developed and announced, across our business to deliver the best product and service experiences for our users, advertisers, partners, customers, and developers.
We believe our approach to AI must be both bold and responsible. That means developing AI in a way that maximizes the positive benefits to society while addressing the challenges, guided by our AI Principles. We published these in 2018, as one of the first companies to articulate principles that put beneficial use, users, safety, and avoidance of harms above business considerations. While there is natural tension between being bold and being responsible, we believe it is possible — and in fact critical — to embrace that tension productively.
Enable Organizations and Developers to Innovate on Google Cloud
AI is not only a powerful enabler, it is also a major platform shift. Globally, businesses from startups to large enterprises, and the public sector are thinking about how to drive transformation. That is why we are focused on making it easy and scalable for others to innovate, and grow, with AI. That means providing the most advanced computing infrastructure and expanding access to Google’s latest AI models that have been rigorously tested in our own products. Our Vertex AI platform gives developers the ability to train, tune, augment, and deploy applications using generative AI models and services such as Enterprise Search and Conversations. Duet AI for Google Cloud provides pre-packaged AI agents that assist developers to write, test, document, and operate software.
Improve Knowledge, Learning, Creativity, and Productivity
Things that we now consider routine – like spell check, mobile check deposit, or Google Search, Google Translate, and Google Maps – all use AI. As AI continues to improve rapidly, we are focused on giving helpful features to our users as we continue to deliver on our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful.
While we have been integrating AI into our products for years, we are now embedding the power of generative AI to continue helping our users express themselves and get things done. For example, Duet AI in Google Workspace helps users write, organize, visualize, accelerate workflows, and have richer meetings. Bard allows users to collaborate with experimental AI with new features that include image capabilities, coding support, and app integration. Dream Screen, a new experimental feature in YouTube, allows for the creation of AI-generated video or image backgrounds to Shorts by typing an idea into a prompt.
5. 



Alphabet Inc.

We also know businesses of all sizes around the world rely on Google Ads to find customers and grow their businesses — and we make that even easier with AI. With Performance Max, advertisers simply tell us their campaign goals and share their creative assets, and AI will automatically produce and run a highly effective ad campaign across all of Google’s properties, to meet their budget. Product Studio brings the benefits of AI to businesses of all sizes, helping them easily create uniquely-tailored imagery featuring their products — for free. Additionally, we are experimenting with Search and Shopping ads that are directly integrated into the AI-powered snapshot and conversational mode in Search Generative Experience.
Build the Most Helpful Personal Computing Platforms and Devices
Over the years, our Pixel phones have incorporated AI compute directly into the device and built experiences on top of it. Our latest Pixel devices were built around AI, bringing the best AI-assistive experiences to our users, such as Best Take, Magic Editor, and Audio Magic Eraser. As we look ahead, we are designing our Android and Chrome operating systems with new AI-forward user experiences. 
Moonshots
Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. Our early investments in AI started out as moonshots but are now incorporated into our core products and central to future developments. We continue to look toward the future and to invest for the long term, most notably for the application of AI to our products and services, as well as other frontier technologies such as quantum computing. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in, as they are the key to our long-term success.
Privacy and Security
We make it a priority to protect the privacy and security of our products, users, and customers, even if there are near-term financial consequences. We do this by continuously investing in building products that are secure by default; strictly upholding responsible data practices that emphasize privacy by design; and building easy-to-use settings that put people in control. We are continually enhancing these efforts over time, whether by enabling users to auto-delete their data, giving them tools, such as My Ad Center, to control their ad experience, or advancing anti-malware, anti-phishing, and password security features.
Google
For reporting purposes Google comprises two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud.
Google Services
Serving Our Users
We have always been committed to building helpful products that can improve the lives of millions of people worldwide. Our product innovations are what make our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google Services' core products and platforms include ads, Android, Chrome, devices, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube, with broad and growing adoption by users around the world.
Our products and services have come a long way since the company was founded more than 25 years ago. While Google Search started as a way to find web pages, organized into ten blue links, we have driven technical advancements and product innovations that have transformed Google Search into a dynamic, multimodal experience. We first expanded from traditional desktop browsers into mobile web search, making it easier to navigate on smaller screens. As new types of content surfaced on the internet, Universal Search made it possible to search multiple content types, like news, images, videos, and more, to deliver rich, relevant results. The introduction of new search modalities, like voice and visual search, made it easier for people to express their curiosity in natural and intuitive ways. We took that a step further with multisearch, which lets people search with text and images at the same time. Large language models like BERT and Multitask Unified Models, or MUMs, have made it possible to express more natural language queries, vastly improving the quality of results. Each advancement has made it easier and more natural for people to find what they are looking for.
This drive to make information more accessible and helpful has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content both on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. People are consuming many forms of digital content, including watching videos, streaming TV, playing games, listening to music, 
6. 



Alphabet Inc.

reading books, and using apps. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to create and find great digital content.
Fueling all of these great digital experiences are extraordinary platforms and devices. That is why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, and Chrome operating system, as well as growing our family of devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful and make people's lives easier by combining the best of our AI, software, and hardware. This potential is reflected in our latest generation of devices, such as the new Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro, and the Pixel Watch 2. Creating products and services that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long-term.
How We Make Money
We have built world-class advertising technologies for advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses through our wide range of products across devices and formats, and we aim to ensure positive user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. AI has been foundational to our advertising business for more than a decade. Products like Performance Max and Product Studio use the full power of our AI to help advertisers find untapped and incremental conversion opportunities.
Google Services generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance and brand advertising that appears on Google Search & other properties, YouTube, and Google Network partners' properties ("Google Network properties"). We continue to invest in both performance and brand advertising and seek to improve the measurability of advertising so advertisers understand the effectiveness of their campaigns.
•Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads.
•Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity for advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. 
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, including filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year, and closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blocklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.
In addition, Google Services increasingly generates revenues from products and services beyond advertising, including:
•consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such as YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One;
•platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales of apps and in-app purchases; and
•devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices.
Google Cloud
Through our Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace offerings, Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, collaboration tools and other cloud services. Customers use five key capabilities from Google Cloud.
•AI-optimized Infrastructure: provides open, reliable, and scalable compute, networking, and storage to enable customers to run workloads anywhere — on our Cloud, at the edge, or in their data centers. It can be used to migrate and modernize IT systems and to train and serve various types of AI models. 
•Cybersecurity: helps customers detect, protect, and respond to a broad range of cybersecurity threats, with AI integrated to further strengthen security outcomes, prioritize which threats to investigate, and identify attack paths, as well as accelerate resolution of cybersecurity threats. 
•Databases and Analytics: provides a variety of different types of databases — relational, key-value, in-memory — to store and manage data for different types of applications. Our Data Cloud also unifies data lakes, data warehouses, data governance, and advanced machine learning into a single platform that can analyze data across any cloud.
7. 



Alphabet Inc.

•Collaboration Tools: Google Workspace and Duet AI in Google Workspace provide easy-to-use, secure communication and collaboration tools, including apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Meet, and more. These tools enable secure hybrid and remote work, boosting productivity and collaboration. AI has been used in Google Workspace for years to improve grammar, efficiency, security, and more with features like Smart Reply, Smart Compose, and malware and phishing protection in Gmail. Duet AI in Google Workspace helps users write, organize, visualize, accelerate workflows, and have richer meetings.
•AI Platform and Duet AI for Google Cloud: Our Vertex AI platform gives developers the ability to train, tune, augment, and deploy applications using generative AI models and services such as Enterprise Search and Conversations. Duet AI for Google Cloud provides pre-packaged AI agents that assist developers to write, test, document, and operate software.
Other Bets
 Across Alphabet, we are also using technology to try to solve big problems that affect a wide variety of industries from improving transportation and health technology to exploring solutions to address climate change. Alphabet’s investment in the portfolio of Other Bets includes businesses that are at various stages of development, ranging from those in the R&D phase to those that are in the beginning stages of commercialization. Our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses. Other Bets operate as independent companies and some of them have their own boards with independent members and outside investors. While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of healthcare-related services and internet services.
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, including, among others, from:
•general purpose search engines and information services;
•vertical search engines and e-commerce providers for queries related to travel, jobs, and health, which users may navigate directly to rather than go through Google;
•online advertising platforms and networks;
•other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television as our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline;
•digital content and application platform providers;
•providers of enterprise cloud services;
•developers and providers of AI products and services;
•companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer hardware products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms;
•providers of digital video services; 
•social networks, which users may rely on for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines;
•providers of workspace communication and connectivity products; and 
•digital assistant providers.
Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to develop and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace across our businesses. For example, for advertising, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining:
•users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security, and availability of our products and services;
•advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels; and
•content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.
8. 



Alphabet Inc.

For additional information about competition, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Ongoing Commitment to Sustainability
We believe that every business has the opportunity and obligation to protect our planet. Sustainability is one of our core values at Google, and we strive to build sustainability into everything we do. We have been a leader on sustainability and climate change since Google’s founding more than 25 years ago. 
Our sustainability work is focused on empowering individuals to take action, working together with our partners and customers, and working to reduce our carbon footprint across our operations and supply chain.
In 2020, we shared our aspiration to help individuals, cities, and other partners collectively reduce one gigaton of their carbon equivalent emissions annually by 2030. This is an ambitious vision that we have set to push us to contribute meaningfully to helping with climate solutions beyond our own operations and value chain. 
In 2021, we set an ambitious goal to achieve net-zero emissions across all of our operations and value chain, by 2030. To accomplish this, we aim to reduce 50% of our combined Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based), and Scope 3 absolute emissions (versus our 2019 baseline) before 2030, and plan to invest in nature-based and technology-based carbon removal solutions to neutralize our remaining emissions. We have formally committed to the Science Based Targets initiative to seek their validation of our absolute emissions reduction target. 
One of the key levers for reducing emissions from our operations is transitioning to clean energy. Since 2017, we have matched 100% of the electricity consumption of our global operations with purchases of renewable energy on an annual basis. However, because of differences in the availability of renewable energy sources like solar and wind across the regions where we operate—and because of the variable supply of these resources—we still need to rely on carbon-emitting energy sources that power local grids. That is why we set a goal to run on 24/7 carbon-free energy (CFE) on every grid where we operate by 2030.
Achieving net-zero emissions and 24/7 CFE by 2030 are extremely ambitious goals. We also know that our path to net-zero emissions will not be easy or linear. Some of our plans may take years to deliver results, particularly where they involve building new large-scale infrastructure with long lead times. So as our business continues to evolve, we expect our emissions to rise before dropping towards our absolute emissions reduction target.
To benefit the people and places where we operate, we have set goals to replenish 120% of the freshwater volume we consume, on average, across our offices and data centers by 2030 and to help restore and improve the quality of water and health of ecosystems in the communities where we operate. 
We also aim to maximize the reuse of finite resources across our operations, products, and supply chains. Our circularity principles focus on designing out waste from the start, keeping materials in use for as long as possible, and promoting healthy materials—for our data centers, workplaces, and products.
More information on our approach to sustainability can be found in our annual sustainability reports, including Google’s Environmental Report. The contents of our sustainability reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. For additional information about risks and uncertainties applicable to our commitments to attain certain sustainability goals, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Culture and Workforce
We are a company of curious, talented, and passionate people. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex challenges in technology and society.
Our people are critical for our continued success, so we work hard to create an environment where employees can have fulfilling careers, and be happy, healthy, and productive. We offer industry-leading benefits and programs to take care of the diverse needs of our employees and their families, including opportunities for career growth and development, resources to support their financial health, and access to excellent healthcare choices. Our competitive compensation programs help us to attract and retain top candidates, and we will continue to invest in recruiting talented people to technical and non-technical roles, and rewarding them well. We provide a variety of high quality training and support to managers to build and strengthen their capabilities-–ranging from courses for new managers, to learning resources that help them provide feedback and manage performance, to coaching and individual support.
At Alphabet, we are committed to making diversity, equity, and inclusion part of everything we do and to growing a workforce that is representative of the users we serve. More information on Google’s approach to diversity can be found in our annual diversity reports, available publicly at diversity.google. The contents of our diversity reports are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC.
9. 



Alphabet Inc.

 As of December 31, 2023, Alphabet had 182,502 employees. We have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, and we are committed to supporting protected labor rights, maintaining an open culture, and listening to all employees. Supporting healthy and open dialogue is central to how we work, and we communicate information about the company through multiple internal channels to our employees.
When necessary we contract with businesses around the world to provide specialized services where we do not have appropriate in-house expertise or resources, often in fields that require specialized training like cafe operations, content moderation, customer support, and physical security. We also contract with temporary staffing agencies when we need to cover short-term leaves, when we have spikes in business needs, or when we need to quickly incubate special projects. We choose our partners and staffing agencies carefully, and review their compliance with Google’s Supplier Code of Conduct. We continually make improvements to promote a respectful and positive working environment for everyone — employees, vendors, and temporary staff alike.
Government Regulation
We are subject to numerous United States (U.S.) federal, state, and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subjects, and the scope of this coverage continues to broaden with continuing new legal and regulatory developments in the U.S. and internationally. Like other companies in the technology industry, we face increasingly heightened scrutiny from both U.S. and foreign governments with respect to our compliance with laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving and their applicability and scope, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain. Particularly with regard to AI; climate change and sustainability; competition; consumer protection; content moderation; data privacy and security; news publications; and reporting on human capital and diversity, we have seen an increase in new and evolving laws and regulations, as well as related enforcement actions and investigations, being proposed and implemented in recent years by legislative and regulatory bodies around the world.
Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could, individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, make our products and services less useful, limit our ability to pursue certain business models, cause us to change our business practices, affect our competitive position relative to our peers, and/or otherwise harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.
For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Item 1A Risk Factors; Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect in Part II, Item 7; and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Intellectual Property
We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names, and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. For additional information, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to these reports, is available on our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file or furnish them with the SEC and they are available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance and other items that may be material or of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, which may be of interest or material to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Governance." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
10. 



Alphabet Inc.

ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with “Note about Forward-Looking Statements,” Part I, Item 1 "Business," Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors," and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
The following section generally discusses 2023 results compared to 2022 results. Discussion of 2022 results compared to 2021 results to the extent not included in this report can be found in Item 7 of our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Understanding Alphabet’s Financial Results
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; we also report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. For additional information on our segments, see Part I, Item 1 Business and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect
The following long-term trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to affect our future results:
•Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing evolution of the online world has contributed to the growth of our business and our revenues since inception. We expect that this evolution will continue to benefit our business and our revenues, although at a slower pace than we have experienced historically, in particular after the outsized growth in our advertising revenues during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we face increasing competition for user engagement and advertisers, which may affect our revenues.
•Users continue to access our products and services using diverse devices and modalities, which allows for new advertising formats that may benefit our revenues but adversely affect our margins.
Our users are accessing our products and services via diverse devices and modalities, such as smartphones, wearables, connected TVs, and smart home devices, and want to be able to be connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We are focused on expanding our products and services to stay in front of these trends in order to maintain and grow our business.
We benefit from advertising revenues generated from different channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats. The margins from these channels and newer products have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Additionally, as the market for a particular device type or modality matures, our advertising revenues may be affected. For example, changing dynamics within the global smartphone market, such as increased market saturation in developed countries, can affect our mobile advertising revenues.
We expect TAC paid to our distribution partners and Google Network partners to increase as our revenues grow and TAC as a percentage of our advertising revenues ("TAC rate") to be affected by changes in device mix; geographic mix; partner agreement terms; partner mix; the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points; product mix; the relative revenue growth rates of advertising revenues from different channels; and revenue share terms.
We expect these trends to continue to affect our revenues and put pressure on our margins.
•As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings, which may affect our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change, and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings to serve these changing needs, which may affect our monetization. For example, revenues from ads on YouTube and Google Play monetize at a lower rate than our traditional search ads. We also expect to continue to incorporate AI innovations into our products, such as AI in Search, that could affect our monetization trends. When developing new products and services we generally focus first on user experience and then on monetization.
•As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase, and may require continued investments. In addition, movements in foreign exchange rates affect such revenues. 
29. 



Alphabet Inc.

The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, such as India. We continue to invest heavily and develop localized versions of our products and advertising programs relevant to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from emerging markets. We expect that our results will continue to be affected by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available. This trend could affect our revenues as developing markets initially monetize at a lower rate than more mature markets.
International revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings.
•The revenues that we derive beyond advertising are increasing and may adversely affect our margins.
Revenues from cloud, consumer subscriptions, platforms, and devices, which may have differing characteristics than our advertising revenues, have grown over time, and we expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our products and services. The margins on these revenues vary significantly and are generally lower than the margins on our advertising revenues. For example, sales of our devices adversely affect our consolidated margins due to pressures on pricing and higher cost of sales.
•As we continue to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in operating and capital expenditures.
We continue to make significant research and development investments in areas of strategic focus as we seek to develop new, innovative offerings, improve our existing offerings, and rapidly and responsibly deploy AI across our businesses. We also expect to increase, relative to 2023, our investment in our technical infrastructure, including servers, network equipment, and data centers, to support the growth of our business and our long-term initiatives, in particular in support of AI products and services. In addition, acquisitions and strategic investments contribute to the breadth and depth of our offerings, expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas, and build strong partnerships around strategic initiatives.
•We continue to face an evolving regulatory environment, and we are subject to claims, lawsuits, investigations, and other forms of potential legal liability, which could affect our business practices and financial results.
Changes in social, political, economic, tax, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics and related legal matters, including investigations, lawsuits, and regulatory actions, have resulted in fines and caused us to change our business practices. As these global trends continue, our cost of doing business may increase, our ability to pursue certain business models or offer certain products or services may be limited, and we may need to change our business practices to comply with evolving regulatory and legal matters. Examples include the antitrust complaints filed by the U.S. Department of Justice and a number of state Attorneys General; legislative proposals and pending litigation in the U.S., EU, and around the world that could diminish or eliminate safe harbor protection for websites and online platforms; and the Digital Markets Act and Digital Services Act in Europe and various legislative proposals in the U.S. focused on large technology platforms. For additional information, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
•Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them.
Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs. For additional information, see Culture and Workforce in Part I, Item 1 Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Revenues and Monetization Metrics
We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers of all sizes with infrastructure and platform services as well as communication and collaboration tools; sales of other products and services, such as apps and in-app purchases, and devices; and fees received for consumer subscription-based products. For additional information on how we recognize revenue, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In addition to the long-term trends and their financial effect on our business discussed above, fluctuations in our revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by a combination of general factors, including:
•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;
30. 



Alphabet Inc.

•changes in pricing, such as those resulting from changes in fee structures, discounts, and customer incentives;
•general economic conditions and various external dynamics, including geopolitical events, regulations, and other measures and their effect on advertiser, consumer, and enterprise spending; 
•new product and service launches; and
•seasonality.
Additionally, fluctuations in our revenues generated from advertising ("Google advertising"), revenues from other sources ("Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues"), Google Cloud, and Other Bets revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by other factors unique to each set of revenues, as described below.
Google Services
Google Services revenues consist of Google advertising as well as Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues.
Google Advertising
Google advertising revenues are comprised of the following: 
•Google Search & other, which includes revenues generated on Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.), and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
•YouTube ads, which includes revenues generated on YouTube properties; and
•Google Network, which includes revenues generated on Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
We use certain metrics to track how well traffic across various properties is monetized as it relates to our advertising revenues: paid clicks and cost-per-click pertain to traffic on Google Search & other properties, while impressions and cost-per-impression pertain to traffic on our Google Network properties.
Paid clicks represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users on Google search properties and other Google owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play. Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.
Impressions include impressions displayed to users on Google Network properties participating primarily in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager. Cost-per-impression is defined as impression-based and click-based revenues divided by our total number of impressions, and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each impression displayed to users. 
As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine, and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and the number of impressions, and for identifying the revenues generated by the corresponding click and impression activity.
Fluctuations in our advertising revenues, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google Search & other properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network properties and the correlation between these items have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as:
•advertiser competition for keywords;
•changes in advertising quality, formats, delivery or policy;
•changes in device mix; 
•seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends, such as traditional retail seasonality; and
•traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various verticals and channels.
31. 



Alphabet Inc.

Google Subscriptions, Platforms, and Devices
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues are comprised of the following:
•consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One;
•platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales of apps and in-app purchases;
•devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices; and
•other products and services.
Fluctuations in our Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as changes in customer usage and demand, number of subscribers, and fluctuations in the timing of product launches.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues are comprised of the following:
•Google Cloud Platform, which generates consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, and other services. These services provide access to solutions such as cybersecurity, databases, analytics, and AI offerings including our AI infrastructure, Vertex AI platform, and Duet AI for Google Cloud;
•Google Workspace, which includes subscriptions for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises, such as Calendar, Gmail, Docs, Drive, and Meet, with integrated features like Duet AI in Google Workspace; and
•other enterprise services.
Fluctuations in our Google Cloud revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as customer usage.
Other Bets
Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of healthcare-related services and internet services.
Costs and Expenses 
Our cost structure has two components: cost of revenues and operating expenses. Our operating expenses include costs related to R&D, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions. Certain of our costs and expenses, including those associated with the operation of our technical infrastructure as well as components of our operating expenses, are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to changes in revenue. Additionally, fluctuations in compensation expenses may not directly correlate with changes in headcount, in particular due to annual stock-based compensation (SBC) awards that generally vest over four years. 
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues is comprised of TAC and other costs of revenues.
•TAC includes: 
◦amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers; and
◦amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
•Other cost of revenues primarily includes:
◦compensation expense related to our data centers and other operations such as content review and customer and product support;
◦content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);
◦depreciation expense related to our technical infrastructure; and
◦inventory and other costs related to the devices we sell.
32. 



Alphabet Inc.

TAC as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network properties are significantly higher than TAC as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Search & other properties, because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network partners.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses are generally incurred during our normal course of business, which we categorize as either R&D, sales and marketing, or general and administrative.
The main components of our R&D expenses are:
•compensation expenses for engineering and technical employees responsible for R&D related to our existing and new products and services; 
•depreciation; and
•third-party services fees primarily relating to consulting and outsourced services in support of our engineering and product development efforts.
The main components of our sales and marketing expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions; and
•spending relating to our advertising and promotional activities in support of our products and services.
The main components of our general and administrative expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees in finance, human resources, information technology, legal, and other administrative support functions; 
•expenses relating to legal matters, including certain fines and settlements; and 
•third-party services fees, including audit, consulting, outside legal, and other outsourced administrative services.
Other Income (Expense), Net 
OI&E, net primarily consists of interest income (expense), the effect of foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net gains (losses) and impairment on our marketable and non-marketable securities, performance fees, and income (loss) and impairment from our equity method investments. 
For additional information, including how we account for our investments and factors that can drive fluctuations in the value of our investments, see Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 as well as Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Provision for Income Taxes
Provision for income taxes represents the estimated amount of federal, state, and foreign income taxes incurred in the U.S. and the many jurisdictions in which we operate. The provision includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties.
For additional information, including a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to our effective tax rate, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
33. 



Alphabet Inc.

Executive Overview
The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results (in millions, except for per share information and percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31, | | | | 
 | 2022 | | 2023 | | $ Change | | % Change
Consolidated revenues | $ | 282,836 | | | $ | 307,394 | | | $ | 24,558 | 9 | %
Change in consolidated constant currency revenues(1) | | | | | | | 10 | %
Cost of revenues | $ | 126,203 | | | $ | 133,332 | | | $ | 7,129 | 6 | %
Operating expenses | $ | 81,791 | | | $ | 89,769 | | | $ | 7,978 | 10 | %
Operating income | $ | 74,842 | | | $ | 84,293 | | | $ | 9,451 | 13 | %
Operating margin | 26 | % | | 27 | % | | | | 1 | % 
Other income (expense), net | $ | (3,514) | | | $ | 1,424 | | | $ | 4,938 | NM
Net income | $ | 59,972 | | | $ | 73,795 | | | $ | 13,823 | 23 | %
Diluted EPS | $ | 4.56 | | | $ | 5.80 | | | $ | 1.24 | 27 | %

NM = Not Meaningful
(1)    See "Use of Non-GAAP Constant Currency Information" below for details relating to our use of constant currency information. 
•Revenues were $307.4 billion, an increase of 9% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in Google Services revenues of $19.0 billion, or 8%, and an increase in Google Cloud revenues of $6.8 billion, or 26%. 
•Total constant currency revenues, which exclude the effect of hedging, increased 10% year over year.
•Cost of revenues was $133.3 billion, an increase of 6% year over year, primarily driven by increases in content acquisition costs, compensation expenses, and TAC. The increase in compensation expenses included charges related to employee severance associated with the reduction in our workforce. Additionally, cost of revenues benefited from a reduction in depreciation due to the change in estimated useful lives of our servers and network equipment.
•Operating expenses were $89.8 billion, an increase of 10% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses and charges related to our office space optimization efforts. The increase in compensation expenses was largely the result of charges related to employee severance associated with the reduction in our workforce and an increase in SBC expense. Operating expenses benefited from the change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and certain network equipment.
Other Information:
•In January 2023, we announced a reduction of our workforce, and as a result we recorded employee severance and related charges of $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023. In addition, we are taking actions to optimize our global office space. As a result, exit charges recorded during the year ended December 31, 2023, were $1.8 billion. In addition to these exit charges, for the year ended December 31, 2023, we incurred $269 million in accelerated rent and accelerated depreciation. For additional information, see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
•In January 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment, resulting in a change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment to six years. The effect of this change was a reduction in depreciation expense of $3.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, recognized primarily in cost of revenues and R&D expenses. For additional information, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
34. 



Alphabet Inc.

•On July 21, 2023, the IRS announced a rule change allowing taxpayers to temporarily apply the regulations in effect prior to 2022 related to U.S. federal foreign tax credits. This announcement applies to foreign taxes paid or accrued in the fiscal years 2022 and 2023. A cumulative one-time adjustment applicable to the prior period for this tax rule change was recorded in 2023 and is reflected in our effective tax rate of 13.9% for the year ended December 31, 2023.
•Repurchases of Class A and Class C shares were $62.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023. For additional information, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
•Operating cash flow was $101.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023.
•Capital expenditures, which primarily reflected investments in technical infrastructure, were $32.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023.
•As of December 31, 2023, we had 182,502 employees.
Financial Results
Revenues
The following table presents revenues by type (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Google Search & other | $ | 162,450 | | | $ | 175,033
YouTube ads | 29,243 | | | 31,510 | 
Google Network | 32,780 | | | 31,312 | 
Google advertising | 224,473 | | | 237,855 | 
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices | 29,055 | | | 34,688 | 
Google Services total | 253,528 | | | 272,543 | 
Google Cloud | 26,280 | | | 33,088 | 
Other Bets | 1,068 | | | 1,527 | 
Hedging gains (losses) | 1,960 | | | 236 | 
Total revenues | $ | 282,836 | | | $ | 307,394

Google Services
Google advertising revenues
Google Search & other
Google Search & other revenues increased $12.6 billion from 2022 to 2023. The overall growth was driven by interrelated factors including increases in search queries resulting from growth in user adoption and usage on mobile devices; growth in advertiser spending; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery.
YouTube ads
YouTube ads revenues increased $2.3 billion from 2022 to 2023. The growth was driven by our brand and direct response advertising products, both of which benefited from increased spending by our advertisers.
Google Network
Google Network revenues decreased $1.5 billion from 2022 to 2023, primarily driven by a decrease in Google Ad Manager and AdSense revenues.
35. 



Alphabet Inc.

Monetization Metrics
The following table presents changes in monetization metrics for Google Search & other revenues (paid clicks and cost-per-click) and Google Network revenues (impressions and cost-per-impression), expressed as a percentage, from 2022 to 2023:

Google Search & other | 
Paid clicks change | 7 | %
Cost-per-click change | 1 | %
Google Network | 
Impressions change | (5) | %
Cost-per-impression change | 0 | %

Changes in paid clicks and impressions are driven by a number of interrelated factors, including changes in advertiser spending; ongoing product and policy changes; and, as it relates to paid clicks, fluctuations in search queries resulting from changes in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices.
Changes in cost-per-click and cost-per-impression are driven by a number of interrelated factors including changes in device mix, geographic mix, advertiser spending, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, property mix, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues increased $5.6 billion from 2022 to 2023 primarily driven by growth in subscriptions, largely for YouTube services. The growth in YouTube services was primarily due to an increase in paid subscribers.
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues increased $1.0 billion from 2021 to 2022 primarily driven by growth in subscription and device revenues, partially offset by a decrease in platform revenues. The growth in subscriptions was largely for YouTube services, primarily due to an increase in paid subscribers. The growth in device revenues was primarily driven by increased sales of Pixel devices. The decrease in platform revenues was primarily due to Google Play, driven by the fee structure changes we announced in 2021 as well as a decrease in buyer spending. Additionally, the overall increase in Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues was adversely affected by the unfavorable effect of foreign currency exchange rates.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues increased $6.8 billion from 2022 to 2023. Growth was primarily driven by Google Cloud Platform followed by Google Workspace offerings. Google Cloud's infrastructure and platform services were the largest drivers of growth in Google Cloud Platform.
Revenues by Geography
The following table presents revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the addresses of our customers:

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
United States | 48 | % | | 47 | %
EMEA | 29 | % | | 30 | %
APAC | 16 | % | | 17 | %
Other Americas | 6 | % | | 6 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 1 | % | | 0 | %

For additional information, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
36. 



Alphabet Inc.

Use of Non-GAAP Constant Currency Information
International revenues, which represent a significant portion of our revenues, are generally transacted in multiple currencies and therefore are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
The effect of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons. We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues ("constant currency revenues") and non-GAAP percentage change in constant currency revenues ("percentage change in constant currency revenues") for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results helps improve the ability to understand our performance, because it excludes the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as revenues excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements ("FX Effect") as well as hedging activities, which are recognized at the consolidated level. We use constant currency revenues to determine the constant currency revenue percentage change on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior year comparable period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging effects realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue percentage change is calculated by determining the change in current period revenues over prior year comparable period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior year comparable period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents the foreign currency exchange effect on international revenues and total revenues (in millions, except percentages):

 | | | | | Year Ended December 31, 2023
 | | | | | | | | % Change from Prior Period
 | Year Ended December 31, | | Less FX Effect | | Constant Currency Revenues | | As Reported | Less Hedging Effect | | Less FX Effect | | Constant Currency Revenues
 | 2022 | | 2023 | | | | | 
United States | $ | 134,814 | | | $ | 146,286 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 146,286 | | | 9 | % | | | 0 | % | | 9 | %
EMEA | 82,062 | | | 91,038 | | | 460 | | 90,578 | | | 11 | % | | | | 1 | % | 10 | %
APAC | 47,024 | | | 51,514 | | | (1,759) | | 53,273 | | | 10 | % | | | | (3) | % | 13 | %
Other Americas | 16,976 | | | 18,320 | | | (654) | | 18,974 | | | 8 | % | | | | (4) | % | 12 | %
Revenues, excluding hedging effect | 280,876 | | | 307,158 | | | (1,953) | | 309,111 | | | 9 | % | | | | (1) | % | 10 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 1,960 | | | 236 | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Total revenues(1) | $ | 282,836 | | | $ | 307,394 | | | | $ | 309,111 | | | 9 | % | | 0 | % | (1) | % | | 10 | %

(1)Total constant currency revenues of $309.1 billion for 2023 increased $28.2 billion compared to $280.9 billion in revenues, excluding hedging effect, for 2022.
EMEA revenue growth was favorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Euro, partially offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Turkish lira.
APAC revenue growth was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Japanese yen.
Other Americas revenue growth was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Argentine peso.
37. 



Alphabet Inc.

Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
The following table presents cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2021 | | 2022 | | 2023
TAC | $ | 45,566 | | | $ | 48,955 | | | $ | 50,886 
Other cost of revenues | 65,373 | | | 77,248 | | | 82,446 | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 110,939 | | | $ | 126,203 | | | $ | 133,332
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 43 | % | | 45 | % | | 43 | %

Cost of revenues increased $7.1 billion from 2022 to 2023 due to an increase in other cost of revenues and TAC of $5.2 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively.
The increase in TAC from 2022 to 2023 was largely due to an increase in TAC paid to distribution partners, primarily driven by growth in revenues subject to TAC. The TAC rate decreased from 21.8% to 21.4% from 2022 to 2023 primarily due to a revenue mix shift from Google Network properties to Google Search & other properties. The TAC rate on Google Search & other revenues and the TAC rate on Google Network revenues were both substantially consistent from 2022 to 2023.
The increase in other cost of revenues from 2022 to 2023 was primarily due to increases in content acquisition costs, largely for YouTube, and compensation expenses, which included $479 million of charges related to employee severance associated with the reduction in our workforce. Additionally, other cost of revenues benefited from a reduction in depreciation expense due to the change in estimated useful lives of our servers and network equipment.
The increase in other cost of revenues of $11.9 billion from 2021 to 2022 was primarily due to increases in device costs, compensation expenses, depreciation, and equipment-related expenses.
Research and Development
The following table presents R&D expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Research and development expenses | $ | 39,500 | | | $ | 45,427
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 14 | % | | 15 | %

R&D expenses increased $5.9 billion from 2022 to 2023 primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses of $2.9 billion, $870 million in charges related to our office space optimization efforts, and an increase in depreciation expense of $722 million. The $2.9 billion increase in compensation expenses was largely the result of a 4% increase in average headcount, after adjusting for roles affected by the reduction in our workforce, and an increase in SBC expense. Additionally, the increase in compensation expenses included $848 million in employee severance charges associated with the reduction in our workforce. The $722 million increase in depreciation expense reflected an offsetting benefit of the change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and network equipment.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents sales and marketing expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 26,567 | | | $ | 27,917
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 9 | % | | 9 | %

Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.4 billion from 2022 to 2023, primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses of $1.6 billion, partially offset by a decrease in advertising and promotional activities of $441 million. The $1.6 billion increase in compensation expenses was largely the result of $497 million in employee severance charges associated with the reduction in our workforce in addition to a combination of other factors, none of which were individually significant.
38. 



Alphabet Inc.

General and Administrative
The following table presents general and administrative expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
General and administrative expenses | $ | 15,724 | | | $ | 16,425
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 6 | % | | 5 | %

General and administrative expenses increased $701 million from 2022 to 2023, primarily driven by an increase in compensation expenses of $416 million, which was largely the result of $264 million in employee severance charges associated with the reduction in our workforce in addition to a combination of other factors, none of which were individually significant. 
Segment Profitability
The following table presents segment operating income (loss) (in millions).

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Operating income (loss): | | | 
Google Services | $ | 82,699 | | | $ | 95,858
Google Cloud | (1,922) | | | 1,716 | 
Other Bets | (4,636) | | | (4,095) | 
Alphabet-level activities(1) | (1,299) | | | (9,186) | 
Total income from operations | $ | 74,842 | | | $ | 84,293

(1)In addition to the costs included in Alphabet-level activities, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue were $2.0 billion and $236 million in 2022 and 2023, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2023, Alphabet-level activities include charges related to the reduction in force and our office space optimization efforts totaling $3.9 billion. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2023, we incurred $269 million in accelerated rent and accelerated depreciation. For additional information relating to our workforce reduction and other initiatives, see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information relating to our segments, see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Google Services
Google Services operating income increased $13.2 billion from 2022 to 2023. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in revenues, partially offset by an increase in content acquisition costs and compensation expenses including an increase in SBC expense. Additionally, operating income benefited from a reduction in costs driven by the change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and certain network equipment.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud operating income of $1.7 billion for 2023 compared to an operating loss of $1.9 billion for 2022 represents an increase of $3.6 billion. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in revenues, partially offset by an increase in compensation expenses largely driven by headcount growth. Additionally, operating income benefited from a reduction in costs driven by the change in the estimated useful lives of our servers and certain network equipment.
Other Bets
Other Bets operating loss decreased $541 million from 2022 to 2023 primarily due to growth in revenues as well as a reduction in valuation-based compensation liabilities related to Other Bet companies.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents OI&E, (in millions):
39. 



Alphabet Inc.


 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Interest income | $ | 2,174 | | | $ | 3,865
Interest expense | (357) | | | (308) | 
Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net | (654) | | | (1,238) | 
Gain (loss) on debt securities, net | (2,064) | | | (1,215) | 
Gain (loss) on equity securities, net | (3,455) | | | 392 | 
Performance fees | 798 | | | 257 | 
Income (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net | (337) | | | (628) | 
Other | 381 | | | 299 | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | (3,514) | | | $ | 1,424

OI&E, net increased $4.9 billion from 2022 to 2023. The increase was primarily due to fluctuations in the value of equity securities reflecting market driven changes in the value of our marketable equity securities, investment specific event driven changes in our non-marketable equity securities, and increased interest income due to interest rates. 
For additional information, see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents provision for income taxes (in millions, except for effective tax rate):

 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Income before provision for income taxes | $ | 71,328 | | | $ | 85,717
Provision for income taxes | $ | 11,356 | | | $ | 11,922
Effective tax rate | 15.9 | % | | 13.9 | %

In 2023, the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) issued a rule change allowing taxpayers to temporarily apply the regulations in effect prior to 2022 related to U.S. federal foreign tax credits, as well as a separate rule change with interim guidance on the capitalization and amortization of R&D expenses. A cumulative one-time adjustment applicable to the prior period for these tax rule changes was recorded in 2023.
The effective tax rate decreased from 2022 to 2023, reflecting the effect of the two tax rule changes described above, particularly the change related to foreign tax credits. The effect of these tax rule changes was partially offset by changes in uncertain tax benefits and a decrease in the U.S. federal Foreign Derived Intangible Income tax deduction.
The OECD is coordinating negotiations among more than 140 countries with the goal of achieving consensus around substantial changes to international tax policies, including the implementation of a minimum global effective tax rate of 15%. While various countries have implemented the legislation as of January 1, 2024, we do not expect a resulting material change to our income tax provision for the 2024 fiscal year. As additional jurisdictions enact such legislation, we expect our effective tax rate and cash tax payments could increase in future years. 
Financial Condition
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
As of December 31, 2023, we had $110.9 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and marketable equity securities.
Sources, Uses of Cash and Related Trends
Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from operations. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long-term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form of capital return to stockholders.
40. 



Alphabet Inc.

The following table presents our cash flows (in millions):
 | Year Ended December 31,
 | 2022 | | 2023
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 91,495 | | $ | 101,746 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (20,298) | | $ | (27,063)
Net cash used in financing activities | $ | (69,757) | | $ | (72,093)

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by operations are advertising revenues generated by Google Search & other properties, Google Network properties, and YouTube properties. In Google Services, we also generate cash through consumer subscriptions and the sale of apps and in-app purchases and devices. In Google Cloud we generate cash through consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, collaboration tools, and other cloud services.
Our primary uses of cash from operating activities include payments to distribution and Google Network partners, to employees for compensation, and to content providers. Other uses of cash from operating activities include payments to suppliers for devices, to tax authorities for income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from 2022 to 2023 due to the increase in cash received from customers, partially offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses.
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by investing activities consists primarily of maturities and sales of investments in marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of purchases of marketable and non-marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment, and payments for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities increased from 2022 to 2023 due to a decrease in maturities and sales of marketable securities, partially offset by a decrease in payments for acquisitions.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash provided by financing activities consists primarily of proceeds from issuance of debt and proceeds from the sale of interests in consolidated entities. Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of repurchases of stock, net payments related to stock-based award activities, and repayments of debt.
Net cash used in financing activities increased from 2022 to 2023 due to an increase in repurchases of stock.
Liquidity and Material Cash Requirements
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flows from operations and financing activities to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.
Capital Expenditures and Leases
We make investments in land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology assets through purchases of property and equipment and lease arrangements to provide capacity for the growth of our services and products.
Capital Expenditures
Our capital investments in property and equipment consist primarily of the following major categories:
•technical infrastructure, which consists of our investments in servers and network equipment for computing, storage, and networking requirements for ongoing business activities, including AI, (collectively referred to as our information technology assets) and data center land and building construction; and
•office facilities, ground-up development projects, and building improvements (also referred to as "fit-outs").
Construction in progress consists primarily of technical infrastructure and office facilities which have not yet been placed in service. The time frame from date of purchase to placement in service of these assets may extend from months to years. For example, our data center construction projects are generally multi-year projects with multiple phases, where we acquire land and buildings, construct buildings, and secure and install information technology assets.
41. 



Alphabet Inc.

During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023, we spent $31.5 billion and $32.3 billion on capital expenditures, respectively. We expect to increase, relative to 2023, our investment in our technical infrastructure, including servers, network equipment, and data centers, to support the growth of our business and our long-term initiatives, in particular in support of AI products and services. Depreciation of our property and equipment commences when the deployment of such assets are completed and are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023, our depreciation on property and equipment were $13.5 billion and $11.9 billion, respectively. 
Leases 
For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023, we recognized total operating lease assets of $4.4 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, the amount of total future lease payments under operating leases, which had a weighted average remaining lease term of eight years, was $17.7 billion, of which $3.2 billion is short-term. As of December 31, 2023, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future short-term and long-term lease payments of $657 million and $3.3 billion, that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2024 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms of one to 25 years. 
For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023, our operating lease expenses (including variable lease costs) were $3.7 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively. Finance lease costs were not material for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023. For additional information, see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Financing
We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2023, we had no commercial paper outstanding.
As of December 31, 2023, we had $10.0 billion of revolving credit facilities, $4.0 billion expiring in April 2024 and $6.0 billion expiring in April 2028. The interest rates for all credit facilities are determined based on a formula using certain market rates, as well as our progress toward the achievement of certain sustainability goals. No amounts have been borrowed under the credit facilities.
As of December 31, 2023, we had senior unsecured notes outstanding with a total carrying value of $12.9 billion with short-term and long-term future interest payments of $214 million and $3.6 billion, respectively. For additional information, see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We primarily utilize contract manufacturers for the assembly of our servers used in our technical infrastructure and devices we sell. We have agreements where we may purchase components directly from suppliers and then supply these components to contract manufacturers for use in the assembly of the servers and devices. Certain of these arrangements result in a portion of the cash received from and paid to the contract manufacturers to be presented as financing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Share Repurchase Program
During 2023 we repurchased and subsequently retired 528 million shares for $62.2 billion.
In April 2023, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $70.0 billion of its Class A and Class C shares. As of December 31, 2023, $36.3 billion remains available for Class A and Class C share repurchases.
The following table presents Class A and Class C shares repurchased and subsequently retired (in millions):

 | Year Ended December 31, 2022 | Year Ended December 31, 2023
 | Shares | Amount | | Shares | | Amount
Class A share repurchases | 61 | $ | 6,719 | | | 78 | | $ | 9,316 
Class C share repurchases | 469 | 52,577 | | | 450 | | 52,868 | 
Total share repurchases(1) | 530 | $ | 59,296 | | | 528 | | $ | 62,184

(1) Shares repurchased include unsettled repurchases as of December 31, 2023.
For additional information, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
42. 



Alphabet Inc.

European Commission Fines
In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the EC announced decisions that certain actions taken by Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines of €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017), €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018), and €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019), respectively. On September 14, 2022, the General Court reduced the 2018 fine from €4.3 billion to €4.1 billion. We subsequently filed an appeal to the European Court of Justice.
While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines. For additional information, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Taxes
As of December 31, 2023, we had income taxes payable of $4.2 billion, of which $2.1 billion was short-term, related to a one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025. We also have long-term taxes payable of $6.3 billion primarily related to uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2023.
Purchase Commitments and Other Contractual Obligations
As of December 31, 2023, we had material purchase commitments and other contractual obligations of $45.9 billion, of which $31.6 billion was short-term. These amounts primarily consist of purchase orders for certain technical infrastructure as well as the non-cancelable portion or the minimum cancellation fee in certain agreements related to commitments to purchase licenses, including content licenses, inventory and network capacity. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of December 31, 2023. In certain instances, the amount of our contractual obligations may change based on the expected timing of order fulfillment from our suppliers. For more information related to our content licenses, see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In addition, we regularly enter into multi-year, non-cancellable agreements to purchase renewable energy and energy attributes, such as renewable energy certificates. These agreements do not include a minimum dollar commitment. The amounts to be paid under these agreements are based on the actual volumes to be generated and are not readily determinable.
Critical Accounting Estimates
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions. Our critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve a significant level of uncertainty at the time the estimate was made, and changes in them have had or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We have reviewed our critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors.
For a summary of significant accounting policies and the effect on our financial statements, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Fair Value Measurements of Non-Marketable Equity Securities
We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, consisting primarily of our non-marketable equity securities. These investments are accounted for under the measurement alternative method ("the measurement alternative") and are measured at cost, less impairment, subject to upward and downward adjustments resulting from observable price changes for identical or similar investments of the same issuer. These adjustments require quantitative assessments of the fair value of our securities, which may require the use of unobservable inputs. Adjustments are determined primarily based on a market approach as of the transaction date and involve the use of estimates using the best information available, which may include cash flow projections or other available market data.
Non-marketable equity securities are also evaluated for impairment, based on qualitative factors including the companies' financial and liquidity position and access to capital resources, among others. When indicators of impairment exist, we prepare quantitative measurements of the fair value of our equity investments using a market approach or an income approach, which requires judgment and the use of unobservable inputs, including discount rates, investee revenues and costs, and comparable market data of private and public companies, among others. 
43. 



Alphabet Inc.

When the quantitative remeasurements of fair value indicate an impairment exists, we write down the investment to its current fair value.
We also have compensation arrangements with payouts based on realized returns from certain investments, i.e. performance fees. We record compensation expense based on the estimated payouts on an ongoing basis, which may result in expense recognized before investment returns are realized and compensation is paid and may require the use of unobservable inputs.
Property and Equipment
We assess the reasonableness of the useful lives of our property and equipment periodically as well as when other changes occur, such as when there are changes to ongoing business operations, changes in the planned use and utilization of assets, or technological advancements, that could indicate a change in the period over which we expect to benefit from the assets. 
Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes.
Recording an uncertain tax position involves various qualitative considerations, including evaluation of comparable and resolved tax exposures, applicability of tax laws, and likelihood of settlement. We evaluate uncertain tax positions periodically, considering changes in facts and circumstances, such as new regulations or recent judicial opinions, as well as the status of audit activities by taxing authorities. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made.
The provision for income taxes includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Loss Contingencies
We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, data security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury consumer protection, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood and the estimated amount of a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material.
Change in Accounting Estimate
In January 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and network equipment resulting in a change in the estimated useful life of our servers and certain network equipment to six years. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning fiscal year 2023. For additional information, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
44. 



Alphabet Inc.


ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with "Note About Forward-Looking Statements" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, including Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors," as updated in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Understanding Alphabet’s Financial Results
Alphabet is a collection of businesses — the largest of which is Google. We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; we also report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. For further details on our segments, see Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Revenues and Monetization Metrics
We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers of all sizes with infrastructure and platform services as well as communication and collaboration tools; sales of other products and services, such as fees received for subscription-based products, apps and in-app purchases, and devices. For additional information on how we recognize revenue, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023.
In addition to the long-term trends and their financial effect on our business discussed in "Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect" in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, fluctuations in our revenues have been and may continue to be affected by a combination of factors, including:
•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;
•changes in pricing, such as those resulting from changes in fee structures, discounts, and customer incentives;
•general economic conditions and various external dynamics, including geopolitical events, regulations, and other measures and their effect on advertiser, consumer, and enterprise spending; 
•new product and service launches; and
•seasonality.
Additionally, fluctuations in our revenues generated from advertising ("Google advertising"), revenues from other sources ("Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues"), Google Cloud, and Other Bets revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by other factors unique to each set of revenues, as described below.
Google Services
Google Services revenues consist of Google advertising as well as Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues.
Google Advertising
Google advertising revenues are comprised of the following: 
•Google Search & other, which includes revenues generated on Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.), and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play;
•YouTube ads, which includes revenues generated on YouTube properties; and
•Google Network, which includes revenues generated on Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
We use certain metrics to track how well traffic across various properties is monetized as it relates to our advertising revenues: paid clicks and cost-per-click pertain to traffic on Google Search & other properties, while impressions and cost-per-impression pertain to traffic on our Google Network properties.
Paid clicks represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users on Google search properties and other Google owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play. Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.
Impressions include impressions displayed to users on Google Network properties participating primarily in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager. Cost-per-impression is defined as impression-based and click-based revenues divided by our total number of impressions, and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each impression displayed to users.
As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine, and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and the number of impressions, and for identifying the revenues generated by the corresponding click and impression activity.
Fluctuations in our advertising revenues, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google Search & other properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network properties and the correlation between these items have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as:
•advertiser competition for keywords;
•changes in advertising quality, formats, delivery or policy;
•changes in device mix;
•seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends, such as traditional retail seasonality; and
•traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various verticals and channels.
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues are comprised of the following:
•consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such as YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One;
•platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales of apps and in-app purchases;
•devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices; and
•other products and services.
Fluctuations in our Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as changes in customer usage and demand, number of subscribers, and fluctuations in the timing of product launches.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues are comprised of the following:
•Google Cloud Platform, which generates consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, and other services. These services provide access to solutions such as cybersecurity, databases, analytics, and AI offerings including our AI infrastructure, Vertex AI platform, and Gemini for Google Cloud;
•Google Workspace, which includes subscriptions for cloud-based communication and collaboration tools for enterprises, such as Calendar, Gmail, Docs, Drive, and Meet, with integrated features like Gemini for Google Workspace; and 
•other enterprise services.
Fluctuations in our Google Cloud revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as customer usage.
Other Bets
Revenues from Other Bets are generated primarily from the sale of healthcare-related services and internet services.
Costs and Expenses
Our cost structure has two components: cost of revenues and operating expenses. Our operating expenses include costs related to R&D, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions. Certain of our costs and expenses, including those associated with the operation of our technical infrastructure as well as components of our operating expenses, are generally less variable in nature and may not correlate to changes in revenue. Additionally, fluctuations in compensation expenses may not directly correlate with changes in headcount, in particular due to annual SBC awards that generally vest over four years.
Cost of Revenues
Cost of revenues is comprised of TAC and other costs of revenues.
•TAC includes: 
◦amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers; and
◦amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
•Other cost of revenues primarily includes:
◦compensation expense related to our data centers and other operations such as content review and customer and product support;
◦content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee);
◦depreciation expense related to our technical infrastructure; and
◦inventory and other costs related to the devices we sell.
TAC as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network properties are significantly higher than TAC as a percentage of revenues generated from ads placed on Google Search & other properties, because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network partners.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses are generally incurred during our normal course of business, which we categorize as either R&D, sales and marketing, or general and administrative.
The main components of our R&D expenses are:
•compensation expenses for engineering and technical employees responsible for R&D related to our existing and new products and services; 
•depreciation; and
•third-party services fees primarily relating to consulting and outsourced services in support of our engineering and product development efforts.
The main components of our sales and marketing expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions; and
•spending relating to our advertising and promotional activities in support of our products and services.
The main components of our general and administrative expenses are:
•compensation expenses for employees in finance, human resources, information technology, legal, and other administrative support functions; 
•expenses relating to legal matters, including certain fines and settlements; and 
•third-party services fees, including audit, consulting, outside legal, and other outsourced administrative services.
Other Income (Expense), Net 
OI&E, net primarily consists of interest income (expense), the effect of foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net gains (losses) and impairment on our marketable and non-marketable securities, performance fees, and income (loss) and impairment from our equity method investments.
For additional information, including how we account for our investments and factors that can drive fluctuations in the value of our investments, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 as well as Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Provision for Income Taxes
Provision for income taxes represents the estimated amount of federal, state, and foreign income taxes incurred in the U.S. and the many jurisdictions in which we operate. The provision includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties.
For additional information, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 as well as Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Executive Overview
The following table summarizes our consolidated financial results (in millions, except per share information and percentages):

 | | Three Months Ended | | | | 
 | March 31, | | | | 
 | | 2023 | | 2024 | | $ Change | | % Change
Consolidated revenues | | $ | 69,787 | | | $ | 80,539 | | | $ | 10,752 | 15 | %
Change in consolidated constant currency revenues(1) | | | | | | | | 16 | %
Cost of revenues | | $ | 30,612 | | | $ | 33,712 | | | $ | 3,100 | 10 | %
Operating expenses | | $ | 21,760 | | | $ | 21,355 | | | $ | (405) | (2) | %
Operating income | | $ | 17,415 | | | $ | 25,472 | | | $ | 8,057 | 46 | %
Operating margin | | 25 | % | | 32 | % | | | | 7 | % 
Other income (expense), net | | $ | 790 | | | $ | 2,843 | | | $ | 2,053 | 260 | %
Net Income | | $ | 15,051 | | | $ | 23,662 | | | $ | 8,611 | 57 | %
Diluted EPS | | $ | 1.17 | | | $ | 1.89 | | | $ | 0.72 | 62 | %

(1)    See "Use of Non-GAAP Constant Currency Measures" below for details relating to our use of constant currency information. 
•Revenues were $80.5 billion, an increase of 15% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in Google Services revenues of $8.4 billion, or 14%, and an increase in Google Cloud revenues of $2.1 billion, or 28%.
•Total constant currency revenues, which exclude the effect of hedging, increased 16% year over year.
•Cost of revenues was $33.7 billion, an increase of 10% year over year, primarily driven by increases in TAC, content acquisition costs, and depreciation expense. These increases were partially offset by decreases in compensation expenses, largely the result of a reduction in employee severance and related charges, and charges related to our office space optimization efforts.
•Operating expenses were $21.4 billion, a decrease of 2% year over year, primarily driven by decreases in charges related to our office space optimization efforts, compensation expenses, largely the result of a reduction in employee severance and related charges, and charges related to legal matters. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in depreciation expense. 
Other Information
•On April 25, 2024, the Board of Directors of Alphabet approved the initiation of a cash dividend program, and declared a cash dividend of $0.20 per share that will be paid on June 17, 2024, to stockholders of record as of June 10, 2024, on each of the company’s Class A, Class B, and Class C shares. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.
•Repurchases of Class A and Class C shares were $3.4 billion and $12.7 billion, respectively, totaling $16.1 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2024. In April 2024, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $70.0 billion of its Class A and Class C shares. For additional information, see Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information.
•Compensation expenses included employee severance and related charges for the three months ended March 31, 2024 of $716 million, a $1.3 billion decrease in severance and related charges as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. For the first quarter of 2024, these charges are included within cost of revenues, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses in the amounts of $153 million, $247 million, $217 million, and $99 million, respectively.
•Operating cash flow was $28.8 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2024.
•Capital expenditures, which primarily reflected investments in technical infrastructure, were $12.0 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2024.
•As of March 31, 2024, we had 180,895 employees.
Financial Results
Revenues
The following table presents revenues by type (in millions): 
 | Three Months Ended
 | March 31, 
 | 2023 | | 2024
Google Search & other | $ | 40,359 | | | $ | 46,156
YouTube ads | 6,693 | | | 8,090 | 
Google Network | 7,496 | | | 7,413 | 
Google advertising | 54,548 | | | 61,659 | 
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices | 7,413 | | | 8,739 | 
Google Services total | 61,961 | | | 70,398 | 
Google Cloud | 7,454 | | | 9,574 | 
Other Bets | 288 | | | 495 | 
Hedging gains (losses) | 84 | | | 72 | 
Total revenues | $ | 69,787 | | | $ | 80,539

Google Services
Google advertising revenues
Google Search & other
Google Search & other revenues increased $5.8 billion from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The overall growth was driven by interrelated factors including increases in search queries resulting from growth in user adoption and usage on mobile devices; growth in advertiser spending; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery.
YouTube ads
YouTube ads revenues increased $1.4 billion from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The growth was driven by our direct response and brand advertising products, both of which benefited from increased spending by our advertisers.
Google Network
Google Network revenues decreased $83 million from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily driven by a decrease in AdSense revenues.
Monetization Metrics
The following table presents changes in monetization metrics for Google Search & other revenues (paid clicks and cost-per-click) and Google Network revenues (impressions and cost-per-impression), expressed as a percentage, from three months ended March 31, 2023 to three months ended March 31, 2024:

Google Search & other | 
Paid clicks change | 5 | %
Cost-per-click change | 8 | %
Google Network | 
Impressions change | (13) | %
Cost-per-impression change | 14 | %

Changes in paid clicks and impressions are driven by a number of interrelated factors, including changes in advertiser spending; ongoing product and policy changes; and, as it relates to paid clicks, fluctuations in search queries resulting from changes in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices.
Changes in cost-per-click and cost-per-impression are driven by a number of interrelated factors including changes in device mix, geographic mix, advertiser spending, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, property mix, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues increased $1.3 billion from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by an increase in subscription revenues, largely from growth in the number of paid subscribers for YouTube services.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud revenues increased $2.1 billion from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024. Growth was primarily driven by Google Cloud Platform followed by Google Workspace offerings. Google Cloud's infrastructure and platform services were the largest drivers of growth in Google Cloud Platform.
Revenues by Geography
The following table presents revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the addresses of our customers:
 | Three Months Ended | 
 | March 31, | 
 | 2023 | | 2024 | 
United States | 47 | % | | 48 | %
EMEA | 30 | % | | 30 | %
APAC | 17 | % | | 16 | %
Other Americas | 6 | % | | 6 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 0 | % | | 0 | %

For additional information, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Use of Non-GAAP Constant Currency Information
International revenues, which represent a significant portion of our revenues, are generally transacted in multiple currencies and therefore are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
The effect of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period-to-period comparisons. We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues ("constant currency revenues") and non-GAAP percentage change in constant currency revenues ("percentage change in constant currency revenues") for 
financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to GAAP results helps improve the ability to understand our performance, because it excludes the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results.
Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as revenues excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements ("FX Effect") as well as hedging activities, which are recognized at the consolidated level. We use constant currency revenues to determine the constant currency revenue percentage change on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior year comparable period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging effects realized in the current period.
Constant currency revenue percentage change is calculated by determining the change in current period revenues over prior year comparable period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior year comparable period exchange rates and hedging effects are excluded from revenues of both periods.
These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents the foreign currency exchange effect on international revenues and total revenues (in millions, except percentages):

 | | | | | Three Months Ended March 31, 2024
 | | | | | | | | % Change from Prior Period
 | Three Months Ended March 31, | | Less FX Effect | | Constant Currency Revenues | | As Reported | Less Hedging Effect | | Less FX Effect | | Constant Currency Revenues
 | 2023 | | 2024 | | | | | 
United States | $ | 32,864 | | | $ | 38,737 | | $ | 0 | | | $ | 38,737 | | | 18 | % | | | 0 | % | | 18 | %
EMEA | 21,078 | | | 23,788 | | | 204 | | 23,584 | | | 13 | % | | | | 1 | % | 12 | %
APAC | 11,681 | | | 13,289 | | | (439) | | 13,728 | | | 14 | % | | | | (4) | % | 18 | %
Other Americas | 4,080 | | | 4,653 | | | (152) | | 4,805 | | | 14 | % | | | | (4) | % | 18 | %
Revenues, excluding hedging effect | 69,703 | | | 80,467 | | | (387) | | 80,854 | | | 15 | % | | | | (1) | % | 16 | %
Hedging gains (losses) | 84 | | | 72 | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Total revenues(1) | $ | 69,787 | | | $ | 80,539 | | | | $ | 80,854 | | | 15 | % | | 0 | % | (1) | % | | 16 | % 

(1)Total constant currency revenues of $80.9 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2024 increased $11.2 billion compared to $69.7 billion in revenues, excluding hedging effect, for the three months ended March 31, 2023.
EMEA revenue growth was favorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Euro, partially offset by the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Turkish lira.
APAC revenue growth was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Japanese yen.
Other Americas revenue growth was unfavorably affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Argentine peso.
Costs and Expenses
Cost of Revenues
The following table presents cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions, except percentages):
 | Three Months Ended | | 
 | March 31, | | 
 | 2023 | | 2024 | | | 
TAC | $ | 11,721 | | | $ | 12,946
Other cost of revenues | 18,891 | | | 20,766 | | 
Total cost of revenues | $ | 30,612 | | | $ | 33,712
Total cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues | 44 | % | | 42 | % | 

Cost of revenues increased $3.1 billion from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 due to an increase in other cost of revenues and TAC of $1.9 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. 
The increase in TAC from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 was largely due to an increase in TAC paid to distribution partners, primarily driven by growth in revenues subject to TAC. The TAC rate decreased from 21.5% to 21.0% from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily due to a revenue mix shift from Google Network properties to Google Search & other properties. The TAC rate on Google Search & other revenues was substantially consistent from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The TAC rate on Google Network revenues reflected a slight increase from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 due to a combination of factors, none of which were individually significant.
The increase in other cost of revenues from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily due to increases in content acquisition costs, largely for YouTube, and depreciation expense. These increases were partially offset by decreases in compensation expenses, largely the result of a reduction in employee severance and related charges of $308 million, and charges related to our office space optimization efforts of $220 million.
Research and Development
The following table presents R&D expenses (in millions, except percentages):
 | Three Months Ended | | 
 | March 31, | | 
 | 2023 | | 2024 | | | 
Research and development expenses | $ | 11,468 | | | $ | 11,903
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues | 16 | % | | 15 | % | 

R&D expenses increased $435 million from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by increases in depreciation expense of $308 million and third-party services fees of $253 million, partially offset by a decrease in charges associated with our office space optimization efforts of $247 million. Additionally, a decrease in compensation expenses of $64 million was primarily the result of a reduction in employee severance and related charges of $588 million. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in SBC expense of $320 million, excluding employee severance and related charges.
Sales and Marketing
The following table presents sales and marketing expenses (in millions, except percentages):

 | Three Months Ended | | 
 | March 31, | | 
 | 2023 | | 2024 | | | 
Sales and marketing expenses | $ | 6,533 | | | $ | 6,426
Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues | 9 | % | | 8 | % | 

Sales and marketing expenses decreased $107 million from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by a decrease in compensation expenses of $85 million, 
largely the result of a reduction in employee severance and related charges of $228 million, partially offset by a combination of factors, none of which were individually significant.
General and Administrative
The following table presents general and administrative expenses (in millions, except percentages):
 | Three Months Ended | | 
 | March 31, | | 
 | 2023 | | 2024 | | | 
General and administrative expenses | $ | 3,759 | | | $ | 3,026
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues | 5 | % | | 4 | % | 

General and administrative expenses decreased $733 million from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by a reduction in charges related to legal matters of $248 million and a combination of factors, none of which were individually significant. 
Segment Profitability
The following table presents segment operating income (loss) (in millions):

 | Three Months Ended | | 
 | March 31, | | 
 | 2023 | | 2024 | | | 
Operating income (loss): | | | | | | 
Google Services | $ | 21,737 | | | $ | 27,897
Google Cloud | 191 | | | 900 | | 
Other Bets | (1,225) | | | (1,020) | | 
Alphabet-level activities(1) | (3,288) | | | (2,305) | | 
Total income from operations | $ | 17,415 | | | $ | 25,472

(1)In addition to the costs included in Alphabet-level activities, hedging gains (losses) related to revenue were $84 million and $72 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2024, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2024, Alphabet-level activities included substantially all of the charges related to employee severance and our office space optimization efforts. For additional information relating to our segments, see Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Google Services
Google Services operating income increased $6.2 billion from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in revenues, partially offset by increases in TAC and content acquisition costs. Additionally, a reduction in compensation expenses contributed to the increase in operating income.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud operating income increased $709 million from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by an increase in revenues, partially offset by increases in compensation expenses, largely driven by headcount growth, and usage costs for technical infrastructure assets.
Other Bets
Other Bets operating loss decreased $205 million from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily due to growth in revenues.
Other Income (Expense), Net
The following table presents OI&E (in millions):

 | Three Months Ended | | 
 | March 31, | | 
 | 2023 | | 2024 | | | 
Interest income | $ | 797 | | | $ | 1,061
Interest expense | (80) | | | (94) | | 
Foreign currency exchange gain (loss), net | (210) | | | (238) | | 
Gain (loss) on debt securities, net | (293) | | | (462) | | 
Gain (loss) on equity securities, net | 377 | | | 2,243 | | 
Performance fees | 118 | | | 104 | | 
Income (loss) and impairment from equity method investments, net | (51) | | | (26) | | 
Other | 132 | | | 255 | | 
Other income (expense), net | $ | 790 | | | $ | 2,843

OI&E increased $2.1 billion from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily due to net unrealized gains in non-marketable equity securities due to fair value adjustments related to observable transactions and increased interest income due to interest rates. 
For additional information, see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information.
Provision for Income Taxes
The following table presents provision for income taxes (in millions, except effective tax rate):

 | Three Months Ended | | 
 | March 31, | | 
 | 2023 | | 2024 | | | 
Income before provision for income taxes | $ | 18,205 | | | $ | 28,315
Provision for income taxes | $ | 3,154 | | | $ | 4,653 
Effective tax rate | 17.3 | % | | 16.4 | % | 

The effective tax rate decreased from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to the tax rule change related to U.S. federal foreign tax credits issued by the IRS in July 2023 and an increase in stock-based compensation-related tax benefits, partially offset by a decrease in the U.S. federal Foreign Derived Intangible Income tax deduction and an increase in taxes for certain U.S. jurisdictions.
The OECD is coordinating negotiations among more than 140 countries with the goal of achieving consensus around substantial changes to international tax policies, including the implementation of a minimum global effective tax rate of 15%. Some countries have already implemented the legislation effective January 1, 2024, and we expect others to follow, however we do not expect a material change to our income tax provision for the 2024 fiscal year. As additional jurisdictions enact such legislation, transitional rules lapse, and other provisions of the minimum tax legislation become effective, we expect our effective tax rate and cash tax payments could increase in future years.
Financial Condition
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
As of March 31, 2024, we had $108.1 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are comprised of time deposits, money market funds, highly liquid government bonds, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, and marketable equity securities.
Sources, Uses of Cash and Related Trends
Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from operations. The primary use of capital continues to be to invest for the long-term growth of the business. We regularly evaluate our cash and capital structure, including the size, pace, and form of capital return to stockholders.
The following table presents our cash flows (in millions):

 | Three Months Ended
 | March 31, 
 | 2023 | | 2024
Net cash provided by operating activities | $ | 23,509 | | $ | 28,848 
Net cash used in investing activities | $ | (2,946) | | $ | (8,564) 
Net cash used in financing activities | $ | (16,568) | | $ | (19,714)

Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Our largest source of cash provided by operations are advertising revenues generated by Google Search & other properties, Google Network properties, and YouTube properties. In Google Services, we also generate cash through consumer subscriptions and the sale of apps and in-app purchases and devices. In Google Cloud, we generate cash through consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, collaboration tools, and other cloud services.
Our primary uses of cash from operating activities include payments to distribution and Google Network partners, to employees for compensation, and to content providers. Other uses of cash from operating activities include payments to suppliers for devices, to tax authorities for income taxes, and other general corporate expenditures.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 due to the increase in cash received from customers, partially offset by an increase in cash payments for cost of revenues and operating expenses. 
Cash Used in Investing Activities
Cash provided by investing activities consists primarily of maturities and sales of investments in marketable and non-marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of purchases of marketable and non-marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment, and payments for acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities increased from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily due to an increase in purchases of property and equipment.
Cash Used in Financing Activities
Cash provided by financing activities consists primarily of proceeds from issuance of debt and proceeds from the sale of interests in consolidated entities. Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of repurchases of stock, net payments related to stock-based award activities, and repayments of debt.
Net cash used in financing activities increased from the three months ended March 31, 2023 to the three months ended March 31, 2024 due to increases in net repayments related to debt, net payments related to stock-based award activities, and repurchases of stock. 
Liquidity and Material Cash Requirements
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, cash flows from operations and financing activities to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.
Capital Expenditures and Leases
We make investments in land and buildings for data centers and offices and information technology assets through purchases of property and equipment and lease arrangements to provide capacity for the growth of our services and products. 
Capital Expenditures
Our capital investments in property and equipment consist primarily of the following major categories:
•technical infrastructure, which consists of our investments in servers and network equipment for computing, storage, and networking requirements for ongoing business activities, including AI, (collectively referred to as our information technology assets) and data center land and building construction; and
•office facilities, ground-up development projects, and building improvements (also referred to as "fit-outs").
Construction in progress consists primarily of technical infrastructure and office facilities which have not yet been placed in service. The time frame from date of purchase to placement in service of these assets may extend from months to years. For example, our data center construction projects are generally multi-year projects with multiple phases, where we acquire land and buildings, construct buildings, and secure and install information technology assets.
During the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2024, we spent $6.3 billion and $12.0 billion on capital expenditures, respectively. We expect to increase, relative to 2023, our investment in our technical infrastructure, including servers, network equipment, and data centers, to support the growth of our business and our long-term initiatives, in particular in support of AI products and services. Depreciation of our property and equipment commences when the deployment of such assets are completed and are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2024, our depreciation on property and equipment was $2.6 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. 
Leases
For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2024, we recognized total operating lease assets of $1.1 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively. As of March 31, 2024, the amount of total future lease payments under operating leases, which had a weighted average remaining lease term of 8 years, was $17.2 billion. 
As of March 31, 2024, we have entered into leases that have not yet commenced with future lease payments of $3.6 billion, that are not yet recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These leases will commence between 2024 and 2026 with non-cancelable lease terms of one to 25 years. 
For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2024, our operating lease expenses (including variable lease costs) were $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. Finance lease costs were not material for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2024.
Financing
We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $10.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. As of March 31, 2024, we had no commercial paper outstanding. 
As of March 31, 2024, we had $10.0 billion of revolving credit facilities, $4.0 billion expiring in April 2024 and $6.0 billion expiring in April 2028. In April 2024, we entered into a new $4.0 billion revolving credit facility expiring in April 2025.The interest rates for all credit facilities are determined based on a formula using certain market rates, as well as our progress toward the achievement of certain sustainability goals. No amounts have been borrowed under the credit facilities.
As of March 31, 2024, we had senior unsecured notes outstanding with a total carrying value of $11.9 billion. For additional information, see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We primarily utilize contract manufacturers for the assembly of our servers used in our technical infrastructure and devices we sell. We have agreements where we may purchase components directly from suppliers and then supply these components to contract manufacturers for use in the assembly of the servers and devices. Certain of these arrangements result in a portion of the cash received from and paid to the contract manufacturers to be presented as financing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Share Repurchase Program
During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we repurchased and subsequently retired 111 million shares for $16.1 billion.
In April 2023, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to $70.0 billion of its Class A and Class C shares. As of March 31, 2024, $20.4 billion remained available for Class A and Class C share repurchases. In April 2024, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to an additional $70.0 billion of its Class A and Class C shares.
The following table presents Class A and Class C shares repurchased and subsequently retired (in millions):
40



 | Three Months Ended March 31, 2024
 | Shares | Amount
Class A share repurchases | 23 | $ | 3,350 
Class C share repurchases | 88 | 12,707 | 
Total share repurchases(1) | 111 | $ | 16,057

(1) Shares repurchased include unsettled repurchases as of March 31, 2024.
For additional information, see Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Dividend Program
On April 25, 2024, the Board of Directors of Alphabet declared a cash dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on June 17, 2024, to stockholders of record as of June 10, 2024, on each of the company’s Class A, Class B, and Class C shares. 
The company intends to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future, subject to review and approval by the company’s Board of Directors in its sole discretion. In connection with the cash dividend (and any future dividend the company’s Board of Directors may declare from time to time), the company will also award dividend equivalent units to holders of all unvested stock units in accordance with the Alphabet Inc. Amended and Restated 2021 Stock Plan and pursuant to each holder’s outstanding stock unit grant agreements, as amended.
European Commission Fines
In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the EC announced decisions that certain actions taken by Google infringed European competition law and imposed fines of €2.4 billion ($2.7 billion as of June 27, 2017), €4.3 billion ($5.1 billion as of June 30, 2018), and €1.5 billion ($1.7 billion as of March 20, 2019), respectively. On September 14, 2022, the General Court reduced the 2018 fine from €4.3 billion to €4.1 billion. We subsequently filed an appeal to the European Court of Justice.
While each EC decision is under appeal, we included the fines in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees (in lieu of a cash payment) for the fines. For additional information, see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Taxes
As of March 31, 2024, we had income taxes payable of $4.2 billion, of which $2.1 billion was short-term, related to a one-time transition tax payable incurred as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act"). As permitted by the Tax Act, we will pay the transition tax in annual interest-free installments through 2025. We also have long-term taxes payable of $7.1 billion primarily related to uncertain tax positions as of March 31, 2024. 
Purchase Commitments and Other Contractual Obligations
As of March 31, 2024, we had material purchase commitments and other contractual obligations of $44.0 billion, of which $29.4 billion was short-term. These amounts primarily consist of purchase orders for certain technical infrastructure as well as the non-cancelable portion or the minimum cancellation fee in certain agreements related to commitments to purchase licenses, including content licenses, inventory and network capacity. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of March 31, 2024. In certain instances, the amount of our contractual obligations may change based on the expected timing of order fulfillment from our suppliers. For more information related to our content licenses, see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 
In addition we regularly enter into multi-year, non-cancellable agreements to purchase renewable energy and energy attributes, such as renewable energy certificates. These agreements do not include a minimum dollar commitment. The amounts to be paid under these agreements are based on the actual volumes to be generated and are not readily determinable.
Critical Accounting Estimates
See Part II, Item 7, "Critical Accounting Estimates" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. 
Available Information
Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to these reports, is available on our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file or furnish them with the SEC and they are available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance and other items of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. We also share Google news and product updates on Google’s Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, which may be of interest or material to our investors. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Governance." The content of our websites is not incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
ITEM 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class A and Class C stock during the quarter ended March 31, 2024.
Period | Total Number of Class A Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) | Total Number of Class C Shares Purchased (in thousands) (1) | | Average Price Paid per Class A Share (2) | Average Price Paid per Class C Share (2) | | Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs(in thousands) (1) | Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program (in millions)
January 1 - 31 | 9,717 | | 29,623 | | $ | 145.11 | | $ | 146.28 | 39,340 | $ | 30,648
February 1 - 29 | 7,568 | | 28,804 | | $ | 143.82 | | $ | 144.75 | 36,372 | $ | 25,429
March 1 - 31 | 5,949 | | 29,230 | | $ | 143.08 | | $ | 143.86 | 35,179 | $ | 20,404
Total | 23,234 | | 87,657 | | | | | 110,891 | 

(1)    Repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. For additional information related to share repurchases, see Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
(2)    Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases.

Alphabet Inc. (NASDAQ:GOOG) Q1 2024 Earnings Conference Call April 25, 2024 4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Jim Friedland - Director of Investor Relations Sundar Pichai - CEO & Director Philipp Schindler - Senior Vice President & Chief Business Officer Ruth Porat - President, Chief Investment Officer, Senior VP & CFO
Conference Call Participants
Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley Doug Anmuth - JPMorgan Eric Sheridan - Goldman Sachs Stephen Ju - UBS Justin Post - Bank of America Jing Lee - Evercore Ken Gawrelski - Wells Fargo Ross Sandler - Barclays Colin Sebastian - Baird
Operator
Welcome, everyone. Thank you for standing by for the Alphabet First Quarter 2024 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Friedland, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Jim Friedland
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's first quarter 2024 earnings conference call. With us today are Sundar Pichai, Philipp Schindler, and Ruth Porat.
Now, I'll quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today regarding our business, operations, and financial performance may be considered forward-looking. Such statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially. Please refer to our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, including the risk factors. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release, which is distributed and available to the public through our Investor Relations website located at abc.xyz/investor. Our comments will be on year-over-year comparisons unless we state otherwise.
And now, I'll turn the call over to Sundar.
Sundar Pichai
Thank you, Jim, and hello, everyone. It was a great quarter led by a strong performance from Search, YouTube, and Cloud. Today, I want to share how we are thinking about the business and the opportunity more broadly. Of course, that's heavily focused on AI and Search. Then I'll take you through some highlights from the quarter in Cloud, YouTube, and beyond. Let's discuss our momentum and strategy. Taking a step back, it took Google more than 15 years to reach $100 billion in annual revenue. In just the last six years, we've gone from $100 billion to more than $300 billion in annual revenue. Of course, Search continues to power that, as you see in our Q1 results. But in addition, we expect YouTube overall and Cloud to exit 2024 at a combined annual run rate of over $100 billion. This shows our track record of investing in and building successful new growing businesses.
Now, let's look at how well we are positioned for the next wave of AI innovation and the opportunity ahead. There are six points to make. One, research leadership. Two, infrastructure leadership. Three, innovation and search. Four, our global product footprint. Five, velocity in execution. Six, monetization paths. First, our foundation of research leadership. We've been an AI -first company since 2016, pioneering many of the modern breakthroughs that power AI progress for us and for the industry. Last week, we further consolidated teams that built AI models under Google DeepMind. This will help simplify development and establish a single access point for our product teams as they build generative AI applications with these models. The teams are making rapid progress, developing Gemini and other models. In February, we rolled out Gemini 1.5 Pro, which shows dramatic performance enhancements across a number of dimensions. It includes a breakthrough in long context understanding, achieving the longest context window of any large -scale foundation model yet. Combining this with Gemini's native multimodal understanding across audio, video, text code, and more, it's highly capable. We are already seeing developers and enterprise customers enthusiastically embrace Gemini 1.5 and use it for a wide range of things.
Beyond Gemini, we have built other useful models, including our Gemma open models, as well as imagine visual models and others. Second, infrastructure leadership. We have the best infrastructure for the AI era. Building world-leading infrastructure is in our DNA, starting in our earliest days when we had to design purpose-built hardware to power search. Our data centers are some of the most high-performing, secure, reliable, and efficient in the world. They've been purpose-built for training cutting-edge AI models and designed to achieve unprecedented improvements in efficiency. We have developed new AI models and algorithms that are more than 100 times more efficient than they were 18 months ago. Our custom TPUs, now in their fifth generation, are powering the next generation of ambitious AI projects. Gemini was trained on and is served using TPUs. We are committed to making the investments required to keep us at the leading edge in technical infrastructure.
You can see that from the increases in our capital expenditures. This will fuel growth in cloud, help us push the frontiers of AI models, and enable innovation across our services, especially in Search. AI innovations and Search are the third and perhaps the most important point I want to make. We have been through technology shifts before, to the web, to mobile, and even to voice technology. Each shift expanded what people can do with Search and led to new growth. We are seeing a similar shift happening now with generative AI. For nearly a year, we have been experimenting with SGE and Search labs across a wide range of queries. And now we are starting to bring AI overviews to the main Search results page. We are being measured in how we do this, focusing on areas where gen AI can improve the Search experience, while also prioritizing traffic to websites and merchants.
We have already served billions of queries with our generative AI features. It's enabling people to access new information, to ask questions in new ways, and to ask more complex questions. Most notably, based on our testing, we are encouraged that we are seeing an increase in Search usage among people who use the new AI overviews as well as increased user satisfaction with the results.
And with Circle to Search, people can now circle what they see on their Android screens, ask a question about an image, or object in a video, and get an AI overview with lens. Fourth, our global product footprint beyond Search. We have six products with more than 2 billion monthly users, including 3 billion Android devices. 15 products have 0.5 billion users, and we operate across 100 -plus countries. This gives us a lot of opportunities to bring helpful Gen AI features and multimodal capabilities to people everywhere and improve their experiences. We have brought many new AI features to Pixel, Photos, Chrome, Messages, and more. We are also pleased with the progress we are seeing with Gemini and Gemini Advanced through the Gemini app on Android and the Google app on iOS.
Fifth, improved velocity and execution. We've been really focused on simplifying our structures to help us move faster. In addition to bringing together our model building teams under Google DeepMind, we recently unified our ML infrastructure and ML developer teams to enable faster decisions, smarter compute allocation, and a better customer experience. Earlier this year, we brought our Search teams together under one leader. And last week, we took another step bringing together our platforms and devices teams. The new combined team will focus on delivering high quality products and experiences, bolstering the Android and Chrome ecosystems, and bringing our best innovations to partners faster. We also remain focused on long-term efforts to durably re-engineer our cost base. You can see the impact of this work reflected in our operating market. We continue to manage our headcount growth and align teams with our highest priority areas.
This speeds up decision making, reduces layers, and enables us to invest in the right areas. Beyond our teams, we are very focused on our cost structures, procurement, and efficiency. And a number of technical breakthroughs are enhancing machine speed and efficiency, including the new family of Gemini models and a new generation of TPUs. For example, since introducing SGE about a year ago, machine costs associated with SGE responses have decreased 80% from when first introduced in labs driven by hardware, engineering, and technical breakthroughs. We remain committed to all of this work. Finally, our monetization path. We have clear paths to AI monetization through ads and cloud, as well as subscriptions. Philip will talk more about new AI features that are helping advertisers, including bringing Gemini models into Performance Max. Our Cloud business continues to grow as we bring the best of Google AI to enterprise customers and organizations around the world. And Google One now has crossed 100 million paid subscribers. And in Q1, we introduced a new AI premium plan with Gemini Advanced.
Okay, those are the six points. So now let me turn to quarterly highlights from Cloud and YouTube in a bit more detail. In Cloud, we have announced more than 1,000 new products and features over the past eight months. At Google Cloud Next, more than 300 customers and partners spoke about their generative AI successes with Google Cloud, including global brands like Bayer, Cintas, Mercedes-Benz, Walmart, and many more. Our differentiation in Cloud begins with our AI Hypercomputer, which provides efficient and cost-effective infrastructure to train and serve models. Today, more than 60% of funded Gen AI startups and nearly 90% of Gen AI unicorns are Google Cloud customers. And customers like PayPal and Kakao Brain are choosing our infrastructure. We offer an industry-leading portfolio of NVIDIA GPUs along with our TPUs. This includes TPU v5p, which is now generally available, and NVIDIA's latest generation of Blackwell GPUs.
We also announced Axion, our new Google design and ARM-based CPU. In benchmark testing, it has performed up to 50% better than compatible x86-based systems. On top of our infrastructure, we offer more than 130 models, including our own models, open source models, and third-party models. We made Gemini 1.5 Pro available to customers, as well as Imagine 2.0 at Cloud Next. And we shared that more than one million developers are now using our generative AI across tools, including AI Studio and Vertex AI. We spoke about how customers like Bristol-Myers Squibb and Etsy can quickly and easily build agents and connect them to their existing systems. For example, Discover Financial has begun deploying Gen AI-driven tools to its nearly 10,000 call center agents to achieve faster resolution times for customers. Customers can also now ground their Gen AI with Google Search and their own data from their enterprise databases and applications. In Workspace, we announced that organizations like Uber, Pepperdine University, and Penny Mac are using Gemini in Google Workspace, our AI-powered agent that's built right into Gmail, Docs, Sheets, and more. We also announced Google Vids, a new application to create stories in short video format. And we introduced Gemini for meetings and messaging and Gemini security for Workspace. Customers are choosing Workspace because they have deep trust in our powerful security and privacy features. Our Cloud business is now widely seen as the leader in cybersecurity. I saw this firsthand when I went to the Munich Security Conference in February. Cybersecurity analysts are using Gemini to help spot threats, summarize intelligence, and take action against attacks, helping companies like American Family Insurance aggregate and analyze security data in seconds instead of days.
Turning next to YouTube, which continues to grow and lead in streaming. We announced that on average, viewers are watching over 1 billion hours of YouTube content on TVs daily. AI experiments like Dream Screen will give anyone the ability to make AI-generated backgrounds for YouTube shots. And on subscriptions, which are increasingly important for YouTube, we announced that in Q1, YouTube surpassed 100 million music and premium subscribers globally, including trailers. And YouTube TV now has more than 8 million paid subscribers. Finally, in Other Bets, Waymo's fully autonomous service continues to grow ridership in San Francisco and Phoenix, with high customer satisfaction and we started offering paid rides in Los Angeles and testing rider-only trips in Austin. Overall, it was a great quarter and there's more to come. iOS is in less than three weeks, followed by Brand cast and Google Marketing Live. I want to thank our employees around the world who are at the heart of this progress and who continue to focus on building innovative products, helpful services, and new opportunities for businesses and partners around the world. Thank you. Philip?
Philipp Schindler
Thanks, Sundar. And hi, everyone. Google Services revenue of $70 billion were up 14% year-on -year. Search and other revenues grew 14% year-on-year, led again by solid growth in the retail vertical, with particular strength from APAC-based retailers, which began in the second quarter of 2023. YouTube ads revenues were up 21% year-on-year, driven by growth in both direct response and brand. Network revenues declined 1% year-on-year. In subscriptions, platforms, and devices, year-on-year revenues increased 18%, driven again by strong growth in YouTube subscriptions.
Let's now talk about a few highlights from the quarter from a product innovation and advertising performance perspective. First, it bears repeating that AI innovation across our ads ecosystem is core to every aspect of our product portfolio, from targeting, bidding, creative, measurement, and across campaign types. We've talked about how solutions like smart bidding use AI to predict future ad conversions and their value in helping businesses stay agile and responsive to rapid shifts in demand, and how products like Broad Match leverage LLMs to match ads to relevant searches and help advertisers respond to what millions of people are searching for. This is foundational. As advances accelerate in our underlying AI models, our ability to help businesses find users at speed and scale and drive ROI just keeps getting better. We're especially excited about the doors Gen AI's opening for creative capabilities, helping deliver on the premise of getting the right ad to the right user in the right moment.
Look at Performance Max. In February, we rolled Gemini into P-Max. It's helping curate and generate text and image assets so businesses can meet P-Max asset requirements instantly. This is available to all US advertisers and starting to roll out internationally in English and early results are encouraging. Advertisers using P-Max asset generation are 63% more likely to publish a campaign with good or excellent ad strength. And those who improve their P-Max ad strength to excellent see 6% more conversions on average. We're also driving improved results for businesses opting into automatically created assets, which are supercharged with Gen AI. Those adopting ACA see an average 5% more conversions at a similar cost per conversion in Search and Performance Max campaigns. And then there's Demand Gen. Advertisers are loving its ability to engage new and existing customers and drive purchase consideration across our most immersive and visual touch points like YouTube, Shorts, Gmail, and Discover. Hollywood Film and TV Studio Lionsgate partnered with Horizon Media to test what campaign type would deliver the most ticketing page views for its The Hunger Games, Ballad of Songbirds, and Snakes Film. Over a three week test, Demand Gen was significantly more efficient versus social benchmarks, with an 85% more efficient CPC and 96% more efficient cost per page view. Lionsgate has since rolled out Demand Gen for two new titles.
We're also bringing new creative features to Demand Gen. Earlier this month, we announced new generative image tools to help advertisers create high quality assets in a few steps with a few simple prompts. This will be a win for up-leveling visual storytelling and testing creative concepts more efficiently. And then there's obviously Search generative experience, which Sundar talked about. I'll add that innovation in the user experience on Search has historically opened up new opportunities for advertisers. We saw this when we successfully navigated from desktop to mobile. We're continuing to experiment with new ad formats, including search and shopping ads alongside search results in SGE. And we shared in March how folks are finding ads either above or below the SGE results helpful. We're excited to have a solid baseline to keep innovating on and confident in the role SGE, including ads, will play in delighting users and expanding opportunities to meet user needs. Which brings me to Search and our strong performance in the first quarter.
In Q1, retail was again a top contributor. Our focus remains on driving profitability and growth for retailers, helping them optimize digital performance for both online and offline, as well as innovate across our shopping and merchant experiences. Highlights include continued upsides for retailers, leading into agile budget and bidding strategies across Search, P-Max, or both. Take Home Goods retailer IKEA, who leaned into Google's store sales measurement to understand its total omnichannel revenue opportunity across Search. By measuring 2.3x more revenue and using value-based bidding solutions to bid to its omnichannel customers, IKEA drove a significant increase in Omni revenue in Q1 and is now scaling this strategy globally. We also expanded local inventory ads into 23 countries, helping drive shopper confidence and offline sales. Retailers can convert intent into action by showcasing in-store availability, pricing, pickup options, and more all in one ad format.
Moving to YouTube. Last quarter, I went deep into our strategy. It all starts with creation, which drives viewership, which leads to monetization. A few updates to build on Sundar's remarks. First, creation, which is all about giving creators the tools to create amazing content, grow their audiences, and build their businesses. In 2023, more people created content on YouTube than ever before, and the number of channels uploading shorts year-on-year grew 50%. We also hit a new milestone with 3 million plus channels in our YouTube Partner Program. We recently shared that YPP has paid out more than any other creator monetization platform, including over 70 billion to creators, artists, and media companies over the last three years. From a viewer's perspective, watch time across YouTube continues to grow, with strength in both shorts and CTV. According to Nielsen, YouTube has been the leader in U.S. streaming watch time for the last 12 plus months. In the first quarter, living room benefited from a combination of strong watch time growth, innovation in the user and advertiser experience, and a shift in brand advertising budgets from linear TV to YouTube. Viewers are watching YouTube because they expect to access everything in one place across screens and formats, their favorite creators, live sports, breaking news, educational content, movies, music, and more. And advertisers continue to lean in to find audiences they can't find elsewhere. Which brings me to monetization.
We're pleased with our Q1 performance across both our ad-supported and subscription offerings. Sundar covered subscription growth. On the ads front, direct and brand were both strong this quarter. Shorts monetization continued to improve, with shorts ads now supported on mobile, tablet, living room, and desktop, and available to both performance and brand advertisers. In the U.S., the monetization rate of shorts relative to in-stream viewing has more than doubled in the past 12 months, including a 10-point sequential improvement in the first quarter alone. Just last week, we introduced new ways for brands to get the most out of their shorts ads with new lineups on YouTube Select, including sports, beauty, fashion and lifestyle, and entertainment. For YouTube advertisers, increasing brand lift is one of the core goals. In Q1, we saw strong traction from the introduction of a Pause Ads pilot on connected TVs, a new non-interruptive ad format that appears when users pause their organic content. Initial results show that Pause Ads are driving strong brand lift results and are commanding premium pricing from advertisers.
Before I wrap, two quick highlights on how we're helping our partners transform and accelerate impact with the best across Google. Number one, to help McDonald's build the restaurant of the future, we're deepening our partnership across Cloud and Ads. Part of this includes them connecting Google Cloud's latest hardware and data technologies across restaurants globally and starting to apply Gen AI to enhance its customer and employee experiences. Number two, WPP. At Google Cloud Next, we announced a new collaboration that will redefine marketing through the integration of our Gemini models with WPP Open. WPP's AI-powered marketing operating system already used by more than 35,000 of its people and adopted by key clients, including the Coca -Cola company, L 'Oreal, and Nestle. We're just getting started here and excited about the innovation this partnership will unlock.
With that, a huge thank you to our customers and partners, many of whom we're excited to see at Google Marketing Live and Brand cast in just a few weeks. And a huge thank you, as always, to our incredible teams for their agility and hard work this quarter. Ruth, you're up.
Ruth Porat
Thank you, Philip. We are very pleased with our financial results for the first quarter, driven in particular by strength in Search and Cloud, as well as the ongoing efforts to durably re-engineer our cost base. My comments will be on year-over-year comparisons for the first quarter, unless I state otherwise. I will start with results at the Alphabet level, followed by segment results, and conclude with our outlook. For the first quarter, our consolidated revenues were $80.5 billion, up 15%, or up 16% in constant currency. Search remained the largest contributor to revenue growth. In terms of total expenses, the year-on-year comparisons reflect the impact of the restructuring charges we took in the first quarter of 2023 of $2.6 billion, as well as the $716 million in employee severance and related charges in the first quarter of 2024. As you can see in our earnings release, these charges were allocated across the expense lines and other cost of revenues and OpEx based on associated headcount. To help with year-on-year comparisons, we included a table in our earnings release to adjust other cost of revenues, operating expenses, operating income, and operating margin to exclude the impact of severance and related office space charges in the first quarter of 2023 versus 2024.
In terms of expenses, total cost of revenues was $33.7 billion, up 10%. Other cost of revenues was $20.8 billion, up 10% on a reported basis, with the increase driven primarily by content acquisition costs associated with YouTube, given the very strong revenue growth in both subscription offerings and ad-supported content. On an adjusted basis, other cost of revenues was up 13% year-on-year. Operating expenses were $21.4 billion, down 2% on a reported basis, primarily reflecting expense decreases in sales and marketing and G&A, offset by an increase in R&D. The largest single factor in the year-on-year decline in G&A expenses was lower charges related to legal matters. On an adjusted basis, operating expenses were up 5%, reflecting first in R&D an increase in compensation expense primarily for Google DeepMind and Cloud, and second in sales and marketing a slight increase year-on-year, reflecting increases in compensation expense primarily for Cloud sales. Operating income was $25.5 billion, up 46% on a reported basis, and our operating margin was 32%. On an adjusted basis, operating income was up 31%, and our operating margin was 33%. Net income was $23.7 billion, and EPS was $1.89. We delivered free cash flow of $16.8 billion in the first quarter and $69.1 billion for the trailing 12 months. We ended the quarter with $108 billion in cash and marketable securities.
Turning to segment results, within Google services, revenues were $70.4 billion, up 14%. Google Search and other advertising revenues of $46.2 billion in the quarter were up 14%. Let again by growth in retail. YouTube advertising revenues of $8.1 billion were up 21%, driven by both direct response and brand advertising. Network advertising revenues of $7.4 billion were down 1%. Subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues were $8.7 billion, up 18%, primarily reflecting growth in YouTube subscription revenues. TAC was $12.9 billion, up 10%. Google services operating income was $27.9 billion, up 28%, and the operating margin was 40%.
Turning to the Google Cloud segment, revenues were $9.6 billion for the quarter, up 28%, reflecting significant growth in GCP with an increasing contribution from AI and strong Google workspace growth, primarily driven by increases in average revenue per seat. Google Cloud delivered operating income of $900 million and an operating margin of 9%. As to our Other Bets for the first quarter, revenues were $495 million, benefiting from a milestone payment in one of the Other Bets. The operating loss was $1 billion.
Turning to our outlook for the business, with respect to Google Services, first within advertising, we are very pleased with the momentum of our ads businesses. Search had broad-based strength across verticals. In YouTube, we had acceleration and revenue growth driven by brand and direct response. Looking ahead, two points to call out. First, results in our advertising business in Q1 continued to reflect strength and spend from APAC-based retailers, a trend that began in the second quarter of 2023 and continued through Q1, which means we will begin lapping that impact in the second quarter. Second, the YouTube acceleration in revenue growth in Q1 reflects, in part, lapping the negative year-on-year growth we experienced in the first quarter of 2023.
Turning to subscriptions, platforms, and devices, we continue to deliver significant growth in our subscriptions business, which drives the majority of revenue growth in this line. The sequential quarterly decline in year-on-year revenue growth for the line in Q1 versus Q4 reflects, in part, the fact that we had only one week of Sunday ticket subscription revenue in Q1 versus 14 weeks in Q4. Looking forward, we will anniversary last year's price increase in YouTube TV starting in May. With regard to platforms, we are pleased with the performance and play driven by an increase in buyers. With respect to Google Cloud, performance in Q1 reflects strong demand for our GCP infrastructure and solutions, as well as the contribution from our workspace productivity tools. The growth we are seeing across Cloud is underpinned by the benefit AI provides for our customers. We continue to invest aggressively while remaining focused on profitable growth. As we look ahead, two points that will affect sequential year-on-year revenue growth comparisons across Alphabet. First, Q1 results reflect the benefit of leap year, which contributed slightly more than one point to our revenue growth rate at the consolidated level in the first quarter. Second, at current spot rates, we expect a larger headwind from foreign exchange in Q2 versus Q1.
Turning to margins, our efforts to durably re-engineer our cost base are reflected in a 400 basis point expansion of our Alphabet operating margin year-on-year, excluding the impact of restructuring and severance charges in both periods. You can also see the impact in the quarter-on-quarter decline in headcount in Q1, which reflects both actions we have taken over the past few months and a much slower pace of hiring. As we have discussed previously, we are continuing to invest in top engineering and technical talent, particularly in Cloud, Google DeepMind, and technical infrastructure. Looking ahead, we remain focused on our efforts to moderate the pace of expense growth in order to create capacity for the increases in depreciation and expenses associated with the higher levels of investment in our technical infrastructure. We believe these efforts will enable us to deliver full-year 2024 Alphabet operating margin expansion relative to 2023. With respect to CapEx, our reported CapEx in the first quarter was $12 billion, once again driven overwhelmingly by investment in our technical infrastructure with the largest component for servers followed by data centers. The significant year-on-year growth in CapEx in recent quarters reflects our confidence in the opportunities offered by AI across our business. Looking ahead, we expect quarterly CapEx throughout the year to be roughly at or above the Q1 level, keeping in mind that the timing of cash payments can cause variability in quarterly reported CapEx.
With regard to Other Bets, we similarly have work streams underway to enhance overall returns. Finally, as I trust you saw in the press release, we are very pleased to be adding a quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share to our capital return program, as well as a new $70 billion authorization and share repurchases. The core of our capital allocation framework remains the same, beginning with investing aggressively in our business, as you have heard us talk about today, given the extraordinary opportunities ahead. We view the introduction of the dividend as further strengthening our overall capital return program. Thank you. Sundar, Phillip and I will now take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions]
And our first question comes from Brian Nowak with Morgan Stanley.
Brian Nowak
Great. Thanks for taking my question. I have two. The first one, I wanted to ask about overall Search behavior. Phillip, I know you talked in the past about how overall query trends continue to grow. Can I ask you to drill a little bit more into monetizable and commercial query trends? Has there ever been any changes in sort of your commercial query trends growth? There's just been all these new entrants moving around on e-commerce is my first one.
And the second one, for Ruth, when you talked about sort of more efforts to moderate expense growth from here, can you just sort of give us some examples of areas where you still see the potential for more optimization or work streams in place to continue to generally re-engineer the OpEx space as we go through our 2024? Thanks.
Philipp Schindler
Thanks Brian. To your first question, look, I think broadly, we've always found that over many years when things will work well on the organic side, monetization follows. So typically, the trends we see carry over well. Overall, I think with generative AI in Search, with our AI overviews, we are definitely, I think we will expand the type of queries we can serve our users. We can answer more complex questions as well. And in general, that all seems to carry over across query categories. Obviously, it's still early and we are going to be measured and put user experience at front. But we are positive about what this transition means.
Ruth Porat
And on the second question in terms of the various org streams, as both Sundar and I said, we remain very focused on ongoing efforts to slow the pace of expense growth, what we've been calling durably reengineering our cost base. And I made this point in opening comments, but we are very cognizant of the increasing headwind we have from higher depreciation and expenses associated with the higher CapEx. And so these efforts are ongoing. And they're very much the same that we've talked with you about previously. It starts with product and process prioritization, all of the work around organizational efficiency and structure. These are ongoing. And so as an example, the work that Sundar talked about combining devices and services with our platforms and ecosystems, product area is a really good example because unifying the teams not only helps us deliver higher quality products and experiences, but we think it enables us to move with greater velocity and efficiency.
And then the other work streams we've talked to you about in the past, like all of the work around technical infrastructure, which Sundar alluded to, streamlining operations within the company through the use of AI, what we're doing with procurement with our suppliers and vendors, which he also referenced, the work you've seen on real estate optimization. These are all ongoing work streams, which is why we have them under the umbrella, durably reengineering our cost base, and they are ongoing.
Operator
Our next question comes from Doug Anmuth with JPMorgan.
Doug Anmuth
Thanks for taking the questions. Sundar, you talked about bringing more generative AI features into the main Search page. Can you just talk about what kind of queries or scenarios you think that that's working best for so far and just how we should think about the cadence of continuing to adopt more of those features within core Search?
And then, Ruth, on CapEx spending the $12 billion in 1Q, can we assume that run rating that and above is reasonable for this year? And I know it's very early, but should we generally expect higher CapEx next year as well?
Philipp Schindler
Thanks, Doug. On SGE in Search, look, I think it tends to really, we're seeing early confirmation of our thesis that this will expand the universe of queries where we are able to really provide people with a mix of factual answers, a link to sources across the web and bring a variety of perspectives, all in an innovative way. And we've been rolling out AIO views in the US and UK, trying to mainly tackle queries which are more complex, where we think the SGE will clearly improve the experience. We've already served billions of queries. And it seems to cut across categories, but we are still continuing our testing. And we'll keep, we are metrics-driven in these areas. And so we'll, but I am optimistic that it clearly improves the user experience. Users are telling us that, and we are seeing it in our metrics. And we'll continue evolving it through the course of this year.
Ruth Porat
And then in terms of CapEx, as I said in opening comments, we do expect the quarterly CapEx throughout the year to be roughly at or above the $12 billion cash CapEx we had here in Q1. As I said, you can always have variability in the reported quarterly CapEx just due to the timing of cash payments, but roughly at or above this level. And it really goes to Sundar's comment, opening comment, that we're very committed to making the investments required to keep us at the leading edge in technical infrastructure to support the growth in Cloud, all the innovation and search that he and Philip have spoken about and our lead with Gemini. I will note that most nearly all, I should say, of the CapEx was in our technical infrastructure. We expect that our investment in office facilities will be about less than 10% of the total CapEx in 2024, roughly flat with our CapEx in 2023, but is still there. And then with respect to 2025, as you said, it's premature to comment, so nothing to add on that.
Operator
Our next question comes from Eric Sheridan with Goldman Sachs.
Eric Sheridan
Thanks so much. Maybe just one question of the big picture in nature for Sundar. If we come back to your earlier comments at the beginning of the call and framing up longer-term initiatives and longer-term narratives. I wanted to know if you could talk a little bit about both the opportunities and the challenges of operating at scale in a time like this where there's a lot of technology innovation going on and how you see the elements of trying to strike a balance towards moving the organization forward while still continuing to both invest for growth as well as balance margins. Thanks so much.
Sundar Pichai
Thanks, Eric. Great question. Obviously, I think the AI transition, I think it's a once in a generation kind of an opportunity. We've definitely been gearing up for this for a long time. You can imagine we started building TPUs in 2016. So we've definitely been gearing up for a long time. The real opportunities we see is the scale of research and innovation which we have built up and are going to continue to deliver. I think for the first time, we can work on AI in a horizontal way and it impacts the entire breadth of the company, be it Search, be it YouTube, be it Cloud, be it Waymo, and so on, and we see rapid pace of innovation in that underlying. So it's a very leveraged way to do it, and I see that as a real opportunity ahead. In terms of the challenges, I think making sure, I think we are constantly, I think it's been a mindset shift which we've been driving across the company to make sure that we are embracing this opportunity, but being very efficient in how we are approaching it, making sure we are redirecting our people to the highest priorities across the company, building on our 20 years of experience and driving machine efficiencies year-on-year so that we can put our dollars to work as efficiently as possible. So making sure, balancing all of that, moving forward in a very bold and responsible way at the same time, those are the important things to get right from my perspective.
Operator
Our next question comes from Stephen Ju with UBS.
Stephen Ju
All right, thank you so much. So hi, Philip. I think it's approaching the two-year anniversary for the launch of ads on YouTube Shorts. And I think you've given us an update on monetization pickup sequentially. But with that in mind, I think YouTube has launched an array of ad products and automation tools to help advertisers transfer what they're doing to the vertical screen. So how is this translating into buy-in among your advertiser clients?
And secondly, based on what you've seen over the last two years, are there any structural reasons that you can cite as to why the monetization cannot match what is already the case on the horizontal screen? Thanks.
Philipp Schindler
Yes, look, this is a great question. First of all, I mean, it started with the fact that YouTube performance was very strong in this quarter. And on Shorts, specifically in the US, I mentioned how the monetization rate of Shorts relative to in-stream viewing has more than doubled in the last 12 months. I think that's what you were referring to. And yes, we're obviously very happy with this development. The way to think about it is advertisers really only spend with us when they see a positive ROI. So you can assume that this wouldn't be happening unless it were to work for advertisers in the short term and also in the long term. That's an important part, I think. Overall, Shorts is a long-term bet for the business. It has really helped us respond to both creator and viewer demand for short-form video. We talked about the strong growth, averaging 70 billion daily views. I mentioned the number of channels uploading has increased 50% year-over-year. So again, I'm very happy with this development.
And to your question, structural reasons whether we can't get to a match here, I have a hard time seeing those at the moment over time.
Operator
Our next question comes from Justin Post with Bank of America.
Justin Post
Hey. Thank you. I'm going to ask another one about CapEx. It seems to be your biggest investment area. Just first, you saw the big uptick the last two quarters, but you've been investing in AI for years. Is the uptick because supply is getting easier to get, or do you see more opportunities with the available supply to really fuel AI? So, has the GPUs and everything gotten better that you feel more investing more?
And then thinking about the returns both for advertising and cloud on the CapEx, do you feel like this is a higher cost of doing business, or do you think this is an opportunity to even get better returns on your capital spend than you've had in the past? Thank you.
Ruth Porat
So, the increase in CapEx, as Sundar said and I said, really reflects the opportunity we continue to see across the company. It starts with all that we're doing in support of the foundation, all the Gemini foundation model, but then also, clearly, the work across Cloud, on behalf of Cloud customers and the growth that we're seeing with GCP and the infrastructure work there, and then, of course, as both Sundar and Philip talked about, the application across Search, YouTube, and more broadly the services that we're able to offer. So it's the growing application and our focus on ensuring that we have the compute capacity to deliver in support of the services and opportunities we see across Alphabet. And it really goes to the second part of your question, which is that as we're investing in CapEx and applying it across our various businesses, it opens up more service and products which bring revenue opportunities, and we're very focused on the monetization opportunity. It does underlie everything that we're doing in Google Services and Google Cloud. And as Sundar noted, we're at the same time very focused on the efficiency of all elements of delivering that compute capacity from hardware, software, and beyond.
Operator
Our next question comes from Mark Mahaney with Evercore.
Jing Lee
Great. Thank you. This is Jing Lee for Mark Mahaney. A couple of questions. One, just maybe an expansion on the Search query questions from before. More like Search volume, maybe in the context of the off Google environment, like AI chatbot, for example, we've seen kind of meta AI directing to Google search results. Do you think there's actually a scenario where like AI system can create a step function change in search volume or use cases off Google? Do you think there's more color on what are you seeing right now or what are you expecting to see in that area?
And then the second question on just the comment of YouTube and Cloud exiting at $100 billion run rate. What is informing this outlook of visibility for you? If you can talk about, is it driven by any sort of Cloud demand inflection or step change in the Gemini workload demand? If you can flush it out a little bit, thanks a lot.
Sundar Pichai
On your first question, look, I said this before, but to be clear, we view this moment as a positive moment for Search, and I think it allows us to evolve our product in a profound way, and Search is a unique experience. People come and they get to, be it if you want answers, if you want to explore more, if you want to get perspectives from across the web, and to be able to do it across the breadth and depth of everything they are looking for, and the innovation you would need to keep that up. I think it's what we've been building on for a long time, and so I feel we are extraordinarily well set up, particularly given the innovation path we are on, and overall, I view this moment as a positive moment. So that's how I would say it, on the second part, Ruth.
Ruth Porat
I'm sorry, what was the, I think the –
Sundar Pichai
The YouTube and cloud.
Jing Lee
Yes, like in terms of your comment about $100 billion exit rates for YouTube and Cloud, what's driving this visibility for you, and any kind of inflection you're seeing in the cloud demand?
Ruth Porat
Oh, I would just say from Sundar's opening comments, it's just the ongoing momentum that we've seen in the business that we've been talking about, the ongoing growth, the strong performance, and so what we were really getting at in that comment, what Sundar was getting at is that we've continued to build strong businesses over time, and that just helps dimension it. We had similar comments last quarter when you talk about our subscription business. We're really proud of all the work that teams are doing across the company building new strong opportunities delivering for users, for customers, for advertisers in profound ways and so it was just helping to dimension what we have built over the years.
Operator
Our next question comes from Ken Gawrelski with Wells Fargo.
Ken Gawrelski
Thank you very much. Two, if I may. First on GCP, you had a nice acceleration in the quarter. Could you talk a little bit about the opportunities and constraints upon GCP's ability to continue to address that large addressable market and accelerate growth? Is it more sales? Is it more product of solutions or both? Do you plan to address most of these organically or could a partner approach work for you?
And then the second one, just more detail on YouTube and sports rights. Could you reiterate your view on further live sports rights? There is some larger mostly in the US league right it’s coming soon and will be more over the next several years. Could you just talk about your philosophy there beyond NFL Sunday ticket? Thank you.
Sundar Pichai
Thanks. Look, on the Cloud side, obviously, it's definitely a point of inflection overall. I think the AI transformation is making everyone think about their whole stack and engaged in a number of conversations. I think AI infrastructure, people really looking to Vertex AI, given our depth and breadth of model choice, or using workspace to transform productivity in your workplace, et cetera. So I think the opportunities there are all related to that, both all the work we have built up and AI being a point of inflection in terms of driving conversations. I think you will see us do it both organically and with a strong partner program as well. So we'll do it with a combination. And the challenges here always, there are switching costs to cloud and the challenges we see is how do we make it easier for people.
There's a lot of interest, but there's definitely barriers in terms of people switching. And so that's an area where we are constantly investing to make it easier for our customers.
Philipp Schindler
And with regard to your sports rights question, look, I mean, we've had long standing and significant partnerships with the most popular sports league here in the US around the globe, Federation's teams, athletes, broadcasters, and obviously these partnerships in combination with a very vast audience of sports fans drives investment and subscription experiences across many offerings, NFL Sunday ticket, YouTube TV, YouTube primetime channels and so on. But there's nothing that we have to announce at the moment. We're obviously always looking at where we can create more value for users, for advertisers, for creators, but nothing specific to talk about at this moment.
Operator
Our next question comes from Ross Sandler with Barclays.
Ross Sandler
Great. Sundar, I had a question about smartphone-based AI searches. So you guys are powering all these new AI interactions and searches on Pixel and on Samsung devices, and I think there's speculation that Gemini might be used on iOS in the future state. So the question is, if users start searching on smartphones and those searches are basically rendered on the model, on the phone without accessing the web, how do you guys anticipate monetizing some of these smartphone-based behaviors that are kind of run on the edge? Any thoughts on that?
Sundar Pichai
Look, I think if you look at what users are looking for, people are looking for information and ability to connect with things outside. So I think there'll be a set of use cases which you'll be able to do on-device. But for a lot of what people are looking to do, I think you will need the richness of the Cloud, the Web, and you have to deliver it to users. So I think, so again, to my earlier comments, I think through all these moments, you saw what we have done with Samsung, with Circle to Search. I think it gives a new way for people to access search conveniently, wherever they are. And so I view this as a positive way to bring ourselves together in a more seamless manner. So I think it's positive from that perspective. In terms of on-device versus Cloud, there will be needs which can be done on-device, and we should, to help it from a privacy standpoint. But there are many, many things for which people will need to reach out to the Cloud. And so I don't see that as being a big driver in the on-Cloud versus off-Cloud in any way.
Operator
And our last question comes from Colin Sebastian with Baird.
Colin Sebastian
Thanks and good afternoon. I guess, first, a follow-up on some of the questions on SGE and the Core Search. I guess I'm wondering, along with some of those changes in behavior, is there a way to quantify that overall engagement shift, whether that's an increase in time spent, increase in over the level of increase in queries for both sort of traditional search as well as more generative answers.
And then secondly, on the hardware roadmap, I assume later this year we'll hear more about some of the products, but any areas of a particular focus or that you would point out that we should keep in mind in terms of hardware launches in the back half? Thank you.
Sundar Pichai
Well, the first question on Search, not much more to add to what I said but what we have seen, and remember we've been in live experiments just for a few weeks in the U .S. and U.K. and on a slice of our queries where, and all indications are positive that it improves user satisfaction. We see an increase in engagement, but I see this as something which will play out over time, but if you were to step back this moment there were a lot of questions last year, and we always felt confident and comfortable that we would be able to improve the user experience. People question whether these things would be costly to serve, and we are very, very confident. We can manage the cost of how to serve these queries. People worried about latency. I think we are, when I look at the progress we have made in latency and efficiency, we feel comfortable. There are questions about monetization, and based on our testing so far, I am comfortable and confident that we'll be able to manage the monetization transition here well as well. It will play out over time, but I feel we are well positioned, and more importantly, when I look at the innovation that's ahead and the way the teams are working hard on it, I am very excited about the future ahead.
Operator
Thank you. And that concludes our question and answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Jim Friedland for any further remarks.
Jim Friedland
Thanks, everyone for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our second quarter 2024 call. Thank you. And have a good evening.
Operator
Thank you, everyone. This concludes today’s conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

Alphabet Inc. (NASDAQ:GOOG) Q4 2023 Results Conference Call January 30, 2024 4:30 PM ET
Company Participants
Jim Friedland - Director of Investor Relations Sundar Pichai - Chief Executive Officer Philipp Schindler - Senior Vice President & Chief Business Officer Ruth Porat - President, Chief Investment Officer, Senior VP & CFO
Conference Call Participants
Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley Doug Anmuth - JPMorgan Eric Sheridan - Goldman Sachs Michael Nathanson - MoffettNathanson Stephen Ju - UBS Justin Post - Bank of America Ross Sandler - Barclays Mark Mahaney - Evercore
Operator
Welcome, everyone. Thank you for standing by for the Alphabet Fourth Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jim Friedland, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Jim Friedland
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Alphabet's fourth quarter 2023 earnings conference call. With us today are Sundar Pichai, Philipp Schindler, and Ruth Porat.
Now, I'll quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today regarding our business, operations, and financial performance may be considered forward-looking. Such statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially. Please refer to our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, including the risk factors discussed in our upcoming Form 10-K filing for the year ended December 31, 2023. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release, which is distributed and available to the public through our Investor Relations website located at abc.xyz/investor. Our comments will be on year-over-year comparisons unless we state otherwise.
And now, I'll turn the call over to Sundar.
Sundar Pichai
Hello, everyone. Our results reflect strong momentum and product innovation continuing into 2024. Today, I'm going to talk about four main topics. One, our investments in AI, including how it's helping search. Two, subscriptions which reached $15 billion in annual revenue, up 5x since 2019. Subscriptions is growing strongly, powered by YouTube Premium and Music, YouTube TV and Google One. Three, Cloud which crossed $9 billion in revenues this quarter and saw accelerated growth driven by our Gen AI and product leadership. And four, our investments and focus to meet the growth opportunities ahead.
First, AI and Search. As you know, we have long led the way in using AI to improve many of our products from search to ads, to most of our consumer and enterprise products, helping billions of people already. Last year brought new excitement around Gen AI and I'm proud of how we responded, responsibly with deep advances in foundation models and a number of great launches. We closed the year by launching the Gemini era, a new industry-leading series of models that will fuel the next generation of advances. Gemini is the first realization of the vision we had when we formed Google DeepMind, bringing together our two world-class research teams. It's engineered to understand and combine text, images, audio, video and code in a natively multimodal way and it can run on everything from mobile devices to data centers.
Gemini gives us a great foundation. It's already demonstrating state-of-the-art capabilities and it's only going to get better. Gemini Ultra is coming soon. The team is already working on the next versions and bringing it to our products. That starts with Search.
We're already experimenting with Gemini in search where it's making our Search Generative Experience or SGE faster for users. We have seen a 40% reduction in latency in English in the U.S. I'm happy with what we are seeing in the earliest days of SGE, it's available through search labs in seven languages. By applying generative AI to Search, we are able to serve a wider range of information needs and answer new types of questions, including those that benefit from multiple perspectives.
People are finding it particularly useful for more complex questions like comparisons or longer queries. It's also helpful in areas where people are looking for deeper understanding such as education or even gift ideas. We are improving satisfaction including answers for more conversational and intricate queries.
As I mentioned earlier, we are surfacing more links with SGE and linking to a wider range of sources on the results page and will continue to prioritize approaches that add value for our users and send valuable traffic to publishers. Beyond SGE, we are continuing to use AI to make searching more accessible and intuitive. Circle to Search, lets you search what you see on Android phones with a simple gesture without switching apps. It's available starting this week on Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro and the new Samsung Galaxy S24 Series.
And Lens now offers generative AI overviews. You can add text to a visual search to ask questions about anything you see and get AI-powered insights in the moment. In addition to Search, we are also seeing a lot of interest in our AI-powered solutions for advertisers. That includes our new conversational experience that uses Gemini to accelerate the creation of search campaigns.
Then there is Bard, our conversational AI tool that complements search. It's now powered by Gemini Pro and is much more capable at things like understanding, summarizing, reasoning, coding and planning. It's now in over 40 languages and over 230 countries around the world. Looking ahead, we'll be rolling out an even more advanced version for subscribers powered by Gemini Ultra.
That's a good segue to subscriptions. As I said earlier, it's now a $15 billion business annually. YouTube is the key driver of our subscription revenues. Available in over 100 countries and regions, YouTube Music and Premium have real momentum. They're engaging passionate users and driving great returns for the music industry and creators.
YouTube TV is also doing well. We've had great consumer feedback on the viewing experience. People love the navigation, multi view and unlimited DVR. NFL Sunday Ticket has found it’s perfect home on YouTube and Philipp will talk about that more.
Let me also talk about our subscription service, Google One. It's doing incredibly well with strong user growth. It provides expanded storage, unlocks exclusive features in Google products and allows us to build a strong relationship with our most engaged users. Google One is growing very well and we are just about to cross 100 million subscribers. From here, we are going to bring in more AI features and look forward to more strong growth to come.
Next, Google Cloud. Throughout 2023, we introduced thousands of product advances, including broad Gen AI capabilities across our AI infrastructure, our Vertex AI platform and our new Duvet AI agents. In Q4, our product and Gen AI leadership enabled us to win and expand relationships with many leading brands including Hugging Face, McDonald's, Motorola Mobility and Verizon.
Google Cloud offers our AI Hypercomputer, a groundbreaking supercomputing architecture that combines our powerful TPUs and GPUs, AI software and multi-slice and multi-host technology to provide performance and cost advantages for training and serving models. Customers like Anthropic, Character AI, Essential AI and Mistral AI are building and serving models on it.
For developers building Gen AI applications, we offer Vertex AI, a comprehensive enterprise AI platform. It helps customers like Deutsche Telekom and Moody's discover, customize, augment and deploy over 130 Gen AI models, including PaLM, Med-PaLM, Sec-PaLM and Gemini, as well as popular open source and partner models.
Vertex AI has seen strong adoption with the API request increasing nearly 6x from H1 to H2 last year. Using Vertex AI, Samsung recently announced its Galaxy S24 Series smartphone with Gemini and Imagen 2, our advanced text-to-image model. Shutterstock has added Imagen 2 to their AI image generator, enabling users to turn simple text prompts into unique visuals and Victoria's Secret & Company will look to personalize and improve the customer experience with Gemini, Vertex AI search and conversations.
Customers are increasingly choosing Duvet AI, our packaged AI agents for Google Workspace and Google Cloud Platform to boost productivity and improve their operations. Since its launch, thousands of companies and more than a million trusted testers have used Duvet AI. It will incorporate Gemini soon. In Workspace, Duvet AI is helping employees benefit from improved productivity and creativity at thousands of paying customers around the world, including Singapore Post, Uber and Woolworths.
In Google Cloud Platform, Duvet AI assist software developers and cybersecurity analysis. Duvet AI for developers is the only Gen AI offering to support the company development and operations lifecycle, fine-tune with the customers’ own core corpus and policies. It's helping Wayfair, GE Appliances and Commerzbank write better software, faster with AI code completion, code generation and chat support. With Duvet AI and security operations, we are helping cybersecurity teams at Fiserv, Spotify and Pfizer.
Our robust growth has been driven by strong direct and indirect channels. With ISVs, we have nearly tripled the number of co-sell deals from 2022 to 2023. In our ecosystem, there are nearly 90,000 Google Cloud Gen AI-enabled consultants. And Accenture has teamed up with Google Cloud to create a joint generative AI center of excellence.
Next, let me turn to our focus and discipline as we pursue the opportunities ahead. Search, YouTube and Cloud are supported by our state-of-the-art compute infrastructure. This infrastructure is also key to realizing our big AI ambitions. It's a major differentiator for us. We continue to invest responsibly in our data centers and compute to support this new wave of growth in AI-powered services for us and for our customers. Through this, we are being disciplined in how we run the company.
You've heard me talk about our efforts to durably reengineer our cost base and to improve our velocity and efficiency. That work continues. Teams are working to focus on key priorities and execute fast, removing layers and simplifying their organizational structures.
As just one example, our devices team has brought together different teams from across Nest, Fitbit and other teams into a new functional structure. This will help us pull resources and drive progress across our Pixel portfolio. Across different teams, we have wound down some non-priority projects, which will help us invest and operate well in our growth areas.
We are also improving our machine utilization, building on our years of experience in driving cost efficiencies in our computing infrastructure and operations. And through our supplier efficiency efforts and automation of certain processes, we have made major improvements in areas like procurement, achieving significant savings.
That's a snapshot of the quarter. Before I close, a couple of other highlights. Pixel 8, our AI-first phone, was awarded Phone of the Year by numerous outlets. It now uses Gemini Nano with features like Magic Compose for Google Messages and more to come.
In our Other Bets portfolio of companies, Waymo, which is deeply focused on safety, reached over 1 million fully autonomous ride-hailing trips. And Isomorphic Labs entered into strategic partnerships with Eli Lilly and Novartis to apply AI to treat diseases, which has great potential.
2023 was a year of profound innovation and product momentum. Thank you to our many partners. We succeed when our partners do, and we are grateful for the work we do together, from our partners across the Android ecosystem who are on display at CES to our deep relationships with retailers, small businesses and advertising partners, to the next generation of AI start-ups and developers and many more. I also want to thank all of our employees for their hard work throughout 2023 and the start of the new year. I'm excited for what's ahead in 2024. Philipp?
Philipp Schindler
Thanks, Sundar, and hi, everyone. Google Services revenues of $76 billion were up 12% year-on-year. In Google advertising, Search and other revenues grew 13% year-on-year, led again by solid growth in the retail vertical. We had particular strength in retail in APAC, a trend that began in the second quarter of 2023 and continued through the end of the year.
YouTube ads revenue were up 16% year-on-year, driven by growth in both direct response and brand. And network revenues declined 2% year-on-year. In Subscriptions, Platforms and Devices, which was previously named Google Other, year-on-year revenues increased 23% driven by strong growth in subscriptions.
Now for some color on the quarter and where we see continued upside for long-term advertising growth. Over the last few calls, I have consistently highlighted how we're putting Google AI to work for our customers to deliver profitability and help them achieve their goals in a do-more-with-less environment.
From a product perspective, in Q4, Performance Max remained a bright spot. We're also excited about [demand gen] momentum. This is our big bet to help social advertisers find and convert consumers via immersive, relevant visual creatives across YouTube, including YouTube Shorts, Gmail and Discover. In a single campaign, you get access to over three billion users as they stream, scroll, connect and decide what to buy. Tens of thousands of advertisers are testing and on average seeing 6% more conversions per dollar versus image-only ads and discovery campaigns.
As we look ahead, we're also starting to put generative AI in the hands of more and more businesses to help them build better campaigns and even better performing ads. Automatically created assets help advertisers show more relevant search ads by creating tailored headlines and descriptions based on each ads’ context. Adoption was up with strong feedback in Q4. In addition to now being available in eight languages, more advanced Gen AI-powered capabilities are coming to ACA.
And then last week's big news was that Gemini will power a new conversational experience in Google Ads. This is open in beta to U.S. and UK advertisers. Early tests show advertisers are building higher-quality search campaigns with less effort, especially SMBs who are 42% more likely to publish a campaign with good or excellent ad strength. We can't wait to see how this continues to drive performance and level the playing field for advertisers of all sizes.
As we shared last quarter, ads will continue to play an important role in the new search experience, and we'll continue to experiment with new formats native to SGE. SGE is creating new opportunities for us to improve commercial journeys for people by showing relevant ads alongside search results. We've also found that people are finding ads either above or below the AI-powered overview helpful as they provide useful options for people to take action and connect with businesses.
Looking at our strong Search performance for the fourth quarter. Retail was a highlight. We continue to see a stronger start to the season up to and including Cyber Five. In Q3, we indicated that we were seeing early trends of consumers being very price-conscious, and we saw this play out in Q4. With promotional demand at an all-time high, deal seekers using Google had access to 2x the deals in the U.S. versus last season as well as a better shopping experience. Launches included a one-stop shop deals destination, new filters like GetItFast and AI-generated gifting recommendations in SGE. These new features drove incremental query growth during key shopping moments like Cyber Five.
Our proven AI-powered ad solutions were also a win for retailers looking to accelerate omni growth and capture holiday demand. Quick examples include a large U.S. big-box retailer who drove a 60%-plus increase in omni ROAS and a 22%-plus increase in store traffic using Performance Max during Cyber-Five; and a well-known global fashion brand, who drove a 15%-plus higher omnichannel conversion rate versus regular shopping traffic by showcasing its store pickup offering across top markets through pickup later on shopping ads.
Moving on to YouTube. We're obviously pleased with YouTube's advertising revenue growth in Q4 and also significant growth in our subscription revenue. I'll reiterate what I have said before. YouTube success starts with creator success. We give millions of creators more ways to create content and connect with fans and more ways to make money and build their own businesses than any other platform. More creators means more content, which leads to more viewers. And via ads and subscriptions, these viewers fund our creators and drive the eyeballs and engagement our advertisers want.
To keep this momentum going, we're focused on delivering value across four pillars: creation, viewers, monetization and responsibility. First, creation, which increasingly takes place on mobile devices. We've invested in a full suite of tools, including our new YouTube Create app for Shorts, to help people make everything from 15-second Shorts to 15-minute videos to 15-hour live streams with a production studio in the palm of their hands.
Gen AI is supercharging these capabilities. Anyone with a phone can swap in a new backdrop, remove background extras, translate their video into dozens of languages, all without a big studio budget. We're excited about our first products in this area from Dream Screen for AI-generated backgrounds to allowed for AI-powered dubbing. There is more to come.
Number two, viewers. We continue to grow watch time across YouTube with strong growth in Shorts and Connected TV. Shorts remains a top priority. We have 2 billion-plus logged-in users every month, and we are averaging 70 billion in daily views. Connected TVs or what we refer to as the living room is where viewership is growing the fastest. We're investing to make this experience even better with interactive features tailored to TVs, plus the content people love: our creators, NFL Sunday Ticket and the range of live sports and studio content via YouTube TV and Primetime Channels. Put this all together, and YouTube is the must-have app on every Connected TV.
Monetization is pillar number three and realized through a combination of ad-supported and subscription offerings. Advertising generates the bulk of our revenue, and we continue to invest heavily here. We've rolled out CTV-first formats like 30-second non-skippable ads and pause experiences as well as an industry-first send-to-phone experience that lets people use a second screen to engage with ads.
For Shorts, we've developed new formats that are less interruptive to viewers. It's early. We're learning but excited by the opportunities for ads this can unlock. Shorts monetization continues to progress nicely.
Our AI part video format from video reach and video view campaigns to demand gen and video action continue to make advertiser dollars go further and drive results across the funnel. We're also introducing new and existing advertisers to YouTube via sports content. 90-plus upfront and scatter advertisers, including Unilever, are partnering with YouTube in our first year across NFL Sunday Ticket in-game advertising opportunities.
Our subscription offerings are also growing at a healthy clip. YouTube Music and Premium performed well. Premium users are delivering more value to our partners and YouTube than even ad-supported users do. On average, each additional Premium sign-up boost earnings for creators, music and media partners and YouTube itself. And we've made Premium even more attractive with new features, bundles and other enhancements.
We're also pleased with our first season of NFL Sunday Ticket. It gave creators new opportunities to create content and feed user engagement across traditional user content and professional sports content. Feedback on the user experience, including MultiView, has been great. We're excited to continue to innovate here.
Responsibility is our fourth pillar, and it underlines everything we do across YouTube. We continue to focus relentlessly on this. As always, deepening our relationships with key partners to bring them the best of Google is a key priority for us, and we continue to do this across industries in Q4.
We just talked about the NFL. Sundar mentioned Samsung, among others earlier. Another highlight was our expanded partnership with Porsche to enhance customers' digital experiences with a deeper in-vehicle integration of Google built-in services, including Google Maps and Play.
Whether it's continued collaboration with our partners and key ecosystems, we're putting Google AI to work for more customers. I'm excited about the opportunities for continued impact in 2024.
I'll wrap with a huge note of gratitude to our customers and partners. Our success is only possible because of their success and then to our Googlers for their outstanding work and focus this year.
Ruth, over to you.
Ruth Porat
Thank you, Philipp. We are very pleased with our full year results with 2023 Alphabet revenues of $307 billion, up 9% versus 2022, which added $25 billion to revenues for the year. We ended with a strong fourth quarter with consolidated revenues of $86.3 billion, up 13% versus last year in both reported and constant currency. Search remained the largest contributor to revenue growth. My comments will be on year-over-year comparisons for the fourth quarter, unless I state otherwise.
Total cost of revenues was $37.6 billion, up 6%. Other cost of revenues was $23.6 billion, up 5%, with the increase driven primarily by content acquisition costs associated with YouTube subscription offerings. The growth rate also reflects the offsetting benefit of lapping $1.2 billion in inventory-related charges that we called out in the fourth quarter last year as well as a reduction in depreciation expense due to changes in estimated useful lives we made starting in the first quarter of 2023.
In terms of total expenses, the year-on-year comparisons reflect an additional $1.2 billion in exit charges that we took in the fourth quarter of 2023 in connection with actions to optimize our global office space. As you can see in our earnings release, these charges were allocated across the expense lines in other cost of revenues and OpEx based on associated headcount.
Operating expenses were $25 billion, up 11%, primarily reflecting an increase in R&D expenses, which were driven by the real estate charges, followed by compensation. Operating income was $23.7 billion, up 30%, and our operating margin was 27%. Net income was $20.7 billion, and EPS was $1.64. We delivered free cash flow of $7.9 billion, which was affected by the timing of the $10.5 billion tax payment we made on October 16 that we called out previously related to the deferral of certain tax payments to the fourth quarter.
For the full-year 2023, free cash flow was $69 billion. We repurchased a total of $62 billion of our Class A and Class C shares in 2023 and ended the year with $111 billion in cash and marketable securities.
Turning to segment results. Within Google Services, revenues were $76.3 billion, up 12%. Google Search and other advertising revenues of $48 billion in the quarter were up 13%, led again by growth in retail. YouTube advertising revenues of $9.2 billion were up 16% driven by both direct response and brand advertising. Network advertising revenues of $8.3 billion were down 2%.
Subscriptions, Platforms and Devices revenues, which we previously referred to as other revenues, were $10.8 billion, up 23%, primarily reflecting growth in YouTube subscription revenues. TAC was $14 billion, up 8%. Google Services operating income was $26.7 billion, up 32%, and the operating margin was 35%.
Turning to the Google Cloud segment. Revenues were $9.2 billion for the quarter, up 26%. We're very pleased with the momentum of GCP with an increasing contribution from AI. Google Workspace also delivered strong revenue growth, primarily driven by increases in average revenue per seat. Google Cloud delivered operating income of $864 million and an operating margin of 9%. As to our Other Bets, for the full-year 2023, revenues were $1.5 billion, and the operating loss was $4.1 billion. Results in the fourth quarter benefited from a milestone payment in one of the Other Bets.
Turning to our outlook for the business. With respect to Google Services, first, within advertising. We were pleased with the sequential revenue growth of Search and YouTube advertising throughout 2023, which reflects the extraordinary work across our teams to drive improved experiences for users and attractive ROI for advertisers. As we enter 2024 with advertising revenues of more than $100 billion higher than 2019, we remain focused on sustaining healthy growth on this larger base.
Second, within Subscriptions, Platforms and Devices, our total revenues from subscription products reached $15 billion for the full-year 2023, driven primarily by substantial growth in subscribers for our YouTube subscription offerings. The substantial increase in our subscription revenues over the past few years demonstrates the ability of our teams to deliver high value-add offerings and provides a strong base on which to build, including through YouTube and newer services like Google One.
Play had solid growth again in the fourth quarter, driven primarily by an increase in the number of buyers. In Devices, we continue to make sizable investments with increased emphasis on our Pixel family, particularly with AI-powered innovation while driving further efficiencies across the portfolio.
Turning to Google Cloud. We are pleased with operating performance in the year. Full year revenues of $33 billion were up 26% versus prior year, ending with strong Q4 performance. The Cloud team is intensely focused on bringing the benefits of Gemini, our industry-leading AI technology, to enterprises and governments globally, and we are gratified with the level of engagement. The strong demand we are seeing for our vertically integrated AI portfolio is creating new opportunities for Google Cloud across every product area.
In terms of profitability, the improvement in 2023 reflects sustained focus across the team with the intent to maintain healthy profitability while we continue to invest to support long-term growth.
Turning to margins and expenses. As we have repeatedly stressed, we remain committed to our framework to durably reengineer our cost base as we invest to support our growth priorities. Key contributors to moderating our expense growth include: first, product and process prioritization to ensure we have the right resources behind our most important opportunities and to reallocate resources where we can; second, organizational efficiency and structure. We're focused on removing layers to simplify execution and drive velocity.
Both product prioritization and the organization design efforts result in a slower pace of hiring, as you can see with our headcount down year-on-year, reflecting the reductions we announced in the first quarter of 2023 and a much slower pace of hiring. We will continue to invest in top technical and engineering talent.
Finally, we continue to execute the other work streams to slow expense growth, including improving efficiency in our technical infrastructure, streamlining operations across Alphabet through the use of AI, increasing efficiency of our spend with suppliers and vendors through our central procurement organization, and optimizing our real estate portfolio.
With respect to CapEx, our reported CapEx in the fourth quarter was $11 billion, driven overwhelmingly by investment in our technical infrastructure with the largest component for servers followed by data centers. The step-up in CapEx in Q4 reflects our outlook for the extraordinary applications of AI to deliver for users, advertisers, developers, cloud enterprise customers and governments globally and the long-term growth opportunities that offers. In 2024, we expect investment in CapEx will be notably larger than in 2023.
With regard to Other Bets, we've been working to sharpen our investment focus while capturing the upside given compelling technology breakthroughs across the portfolio. For example, last week, Alphabet's X announced that it would be moving to spin out more projects as independent companies through external capital, giving X the opportunity to bring more focus to the breakthrough technologies it is working on to address some of the world's most pressing challenges.
Thank you. Sundar, Philipp and I will now take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brian Nowak with Morgan Stanley.
Brian Nowak
I have two for Philipp. Philipp, the first one is about sort of a lot of the new generative AI advertising tools. You obviously have a lot of irons in the fire here. You've been talking about some of the early momentum with tens of thousands of advertisers.
The question is, can you sort of walk us through some of the hurdles and gating factors that we should be thinking through that dictate the pace at which these tools can really be rolled out broadly just so we and advertisers can kind of get an understanding for when they could have a bigger impact on the whole business? And then secondly, how do you think about the long-term sales force intensity of the advertising business as you roll more AI-based tools like PMax impacting the overall ad allocation?
Philipp Schindler
Yes. Thank you so much. So I've covered this a little bit on previous quarters. AI has been at the core of our advertising products for a very, very long time. And the recent advances are really allowing us to drive more value for advertisers across a large range of different areas: bidding, targeting, creative as well as our core advertiser and publisher experiences.
We are seeing in core search ads, for example, the bidding side, the value-based bidding as a very significant one on the targeting side, the broad match on creative, responsive search ads automatically created ads assets. And we are very happy with the progress we're seeing in those areas.
I think I mentioned in one of the previous calls that one. You asked about hurdles and gating factors. The AI essentials play neutral in this trying to get everybody ready to really take full advantage of those tools. We talked about the progress on PMax as well that we're very happy with in Q4. So overall, I think we are on track with what we're expecting here.
On the sales force intensity side, we have done a few reallocations or let me call it portfolio adjustments. As you know, we have two large different teams. One is our LCS, Large Customer Solutions team that's really focused on transformational growth for our largest and most sophisticated customers. And we have our -- we call them GCS, Global Customer Solutions, team, which is the channel where really every customer starts from some of our largest customers now to also the millions of smaller ones and SMBs.
The GCS is really then scaling growth by dynamically delivering really the right treatment for every customer. And important to note, it’s also our fastest-growing channel, and it delivered particularly strong growth in Q4. So we have done adjustments here to focus more resources on the GCS side.
But I also want to be clear, when we restructure, there’s always an opportunity to be more efficient and smarter in how we service and grow our customers. We’re not restructuring because AI is taking away roles that’s important here. But we see significant opportunities here with our AI-powered solution to actually deliver incredible ROI at scale, and that’s why we’re doing some of those adjustments. So I look at sales force intensity as a stronger focus going forward on the channels I mentioned here.
Operator
Our next question comes from Doug Anmuth with JPMorgan.
Doug Anmuth
One for Ruth and one for Philipp. Ruth, you're now into year two of durably reengineering your cost structure. Can you just help us assess your progress so far? And are there any guideposts that we should be thinking about going forward?
And then, Philipp, can you talk more about NFL Sunday Ticket and just what your key learnings were in year one? How are you thinking about the returns on the investment on both from an advertising perspective and then also subscribers to both Sunday Ticket and YouTube TV?
Ruth Porat
Thanks for the question. So we are very pleased with the progress we're continuing to make, and we are very committed to the framework to durably reengineer our cost base really as we're investing to support the growth priorities. I tried to call out a number of them in opening comments, but really, as you're looking at the work being done across Google, across Alphabet, it does start with product and process prioritization to make sure we've got the right resources behind the most important opportunities, and then that creates the opportunity for reallocating resources where we can.
Then we talked a lot about this quarter about organizational efficiency and structure, and we're focused on removing layers to simplify execution and drive velocity. The combination of those two, product prioritization and organizational design work, has resulted in the slower pace of hiring. You can see that in our headcount numbers down year-on-year. You can see it in some of the -- in the results that we delivered in the fourth quarter.
You can -- and it also goes to the announcements around first quarter and much lower pace of hiring. At this point in the quarter, we do estimate that severance-related expense will be roughly $700 million in the first quarter as we've continued these efforts. But as I said in opening comments, we will continue to invest in top engineering.
So that's sort of the big one, if you start with product prioritization and organizational design, which is why also the note about the severance-related expense, which helps pave the way as we're continuing to do the work that we're doing. But then we have a host of other work streams, which I talked about, everything with improving efficiency in our technical infrastructure, which is a very large ongoing effort; streamlining operations across Alphabet through use of AI; all the work we're doing with our suppliers and vendors; the work we're doing optimizing our real estate portfolio. So when we've described durably reengineering, it's about continuing to build on work that started, and that is ongoing.
Philipp Schindler
So on the NFL Sunday Ticket side, look, as I said earlier, NFL Sunday Ticket supports our long-term strategy and really help solidify YouTube's position as a must-have app on everyone's TV set.
You asked about some of the learnings. Maybe I start with a viewing experience. We've received great feedback so far. People like the navigation, MultiView, the chat, the lack of latency, a really, really positive feedback on this one. You asked about the ads and the subs. Maybe I start with the subscribers.
We're pleased with the NFL Sunday Ticket sign-ups and all for a season both as part of the YouTube TV bundle and as a stand-alone offering on YouTube Primetime Channels. Remember, you can access them via both. Nothing more to share on the sub side today on this one.
On the ad side, as you know, advertisers can buy from an NFL lineup as part of our YouTube Select portfolio. And this actually allows advertisers to reach football fans across YouTube's pretty unique breadth of NFL content independently of whether you're doing live game on YouTube TV or Primetime Channels or watching NFL highlights, post game commentary on YouTube channels.
And we saw solid demand across the ad market around our YouTube Sunday Ticket offering here. We're excited about the partnership ahead or the partnerships ahead. This is our first season. And I mentioned over 90 upfront and scatter advertisers partnered with YouTube in our first year across NFL Sunday Ticket in-game opportunities, which we really appreciate.
Operator
Our next question comes from Eric Sheridan with Goldman Sachs.
Eric Sheridan
Two, if I could. Sundar, a bigger-picture question, coming back to your comments earlier in the call on Search Generative Experience. When you think about the evolution of product over the next couple of years, how do you envision more traditional search and things like the Google Assistant continuing to evolve in a world of Search Generative Experience and Bard and what that might mean for elements of commercial and non-commercial search and how use cases might change in the years ahead?
And then, Ruth, I just want to make sure we understood some of the messaging from the release and the public comments around one-timers in the quarter itself. It seems as if they were not allocated to the segments but are more elements of Other Bets and Alphabet-level activities. I just want to confirm whether elements of those one-timers were captured in the P&L statement and whether there were also any elements of legal one-timers that would be called out this quarter as well?
Sundar Pichai
Thanks, Eric. Great question. Look, it is an exciting time. Clearly, as I said, as we are incorporating SGE in the product, the early feedback is positive. And we've been iterating on it, and it clearly works for certain type of queries very well. We are expanding the set of queries where it works very well. It definitely is answering a certain category of queries for the first time in a better way. So that gives us direction to proceed as well.
Overall, one of the things I think people underestimate about Search is the breadth of Search, the amount of queries we see constantly on a new day, which we haven't seen before. And so the trick here is to deliver that high-quality experience across the breadth of what we see in Search.
And over time, we think Assistant will be very complementary. And we will again use generative AI there, particularly with our most advanced models and Bard, and allows us to act more like an agent over time, if I were to think about the future and maybe go beyond answers and follow through for users even more. So that is the -- directionally, what the opportunity set is. Obviously, a lot of execution ahead. But it's an area where I think we have a deep sense of what to do. And all the work we have taken so far, the feedback has been super positive.
Ruth Porat
And then in terms of your other question, so on the real estate charge of $1.2 billion in exit charges related to real estate, that is in Alphabet-level activities. But the other comment I was making in opening comments is when you go through the various line items, R&D, et cetera, you see it spread there. And we have a table and IR can walk anybody through the technicals on that just to understand how it then gets arrayed across the various lines in the P&L.
Operator
Our next question comes from Michael Nathanson with MoffettNathanson.
Michael Nathanson
I have two for Philipp, I think. Given the importance of Connected TV engagement in YouTube, can you talk about the opportunity outside the U.S. for Connected TV? And what the company is doing at large to drive more adoption of YouTube or Connected TVs given the Google operating system? Anything you talk about outside the U.S.?
And then you've been consistent about the strength of Shorts over the past year. Can you talk a bit about the modernization challenges? Do you still see the headwinds that you saw at the beginning? Anything you could share about the density of the auction or advertising interest on Shorts to help us with whether or not that's still a headwind to growth?
Philipp Schindler
Yes. Thank you so much for your question. On the Connected TV side, I mentioned it actually continues to perform really well. I said before, YouTube is the leader in U.S. streaming watch time and it’s not just one audience group diving deep. It's really all audiences. On the international side, it's something we are closely looking at. There's nothing specific I have at this moment in time on this one.
On the Shorts monetization side, look, we built Shorts to respond to the huge demand from both creators and viewers for short-form video. And we're very pleased with the growth we've seen. I mentioned 2 billion-plus logged-in users every month, 70 billion in daily views. Specifically to the monetization question, Shorts monetization continues to progress nicely. In fact, actually, since we introduced revenue sharing for Shorts, the total creator earnings generated from Shorts have increased every month, and we expect this to continue. And similar, obviously, to our long-form videos, we're really committed here to a long-term partnership. And you heard me say this before, right, when creators succeed, we succeed.
Operator
Our next question comes from Stephen Ju with UBS.
Stephen Ju
So Philipp, this is not a new question, but it's also been about two years since PMax was launched. But it seems like there's been this long lineage of product development and rollout of things like smart bidding in your history, which I believe at the time was designed to help smaller advertisers more easily run search advertising.
And today, you're helping me generate creators as well as manage my spend and maximize ROI across multiple Google Services. So how are you feeling about enabling SMBs who otherwise could not advertise with you before? And what kind of TAM expansion tailwind does that create for your revenue growth over the longer term?
Philipp Schindler
Look, as you know, SMBs are a huge focus for us. We mentioned this several times before. They're part of our GCS channel, not only there's more in this. But they've been under a ton of change over the last few years. And our focus has always been here on investing in solutions that really help level the playing field, and you mentioned several of those. So actually, SMBs can compete with bigger brands and more sophisticated advertisers.
And so the feedback we’re always getting is they need easy solutions that could drive value quickly, and several of the AI part solutions that you’re mentioning are actually making the workflow and the whole on-ramp and the bidded targeting creative and so on you mentioned that is so much easier for SMBs. So we’re very satisfied with what we’re seeing here. We will continue to invest. And I feel AI is really a helpful, very interesting future path to make life not only easier but also much more productive and better arise over time, more level playing field for SMBs.
Operator
Our next question comes from Justin Post with BAML.
Justin Post
Maybe one for Sundar and one for Ruth. Just on Search growth, I think there are some concerns on use of competitive AI tools as an alternative to Search. Just wondering if you see any changes in query volumes, positive or negative, since you've seen the year evolve and more Search innovative experiences. And what can really make Google stand out versus other AI tools?
And then Ruth, CapEx was $11 billion. A step-up, obviously. Any one-time items in there? Or is that how we should think about the new run rate into '24?
Sundar Pichai
Thanks, Justin. First of all, look, we think about effects on Search, obviously, more broadly. People have a lot of information choices. So -- and user expectations are constantly evolving. And so we've been doing this for a long time. And I think what ends up mattering is a strong continuous track record of innovation.
Obviously, generative AI is a new tool in the arsenal. But there's a lot more that goes into Search: the breadth, the depth the diversity across verticals, stability to follow through getting actually access to rich, diverse sources of content on the web and putting it all together in a compelling way.
And I think, through the year two, when we test, we test Search Generative Experience, particularly against everything that's out there. And we can see the progress we are making and how much users are liking the experience better. And so I think I feel very good about the progress. And our road map for '24 is strong both on the Search and the underlying AI progress, including the model. So I'm pretty excited about what's ahead of us in '24.
Ruth Porat
And with respect to CapEx, the CapEx of $11 billion in the fourth quarter, as I indicated, was overwhelmingly investment in our technical infrastructure. To your question, there was no one-time item in there. What it really reflects is our outlook for everything Sundar and Philipp and I have been talking about, the extraordinary applications of AI within Google DeepMind, Google Services, Google Cloud, it’s across the board for users, for advertisers, developers, cloud enterprise customers, governments. And it’s really the long-term opportunity that offer.
So last quarter, we did note that CapEx would continue to grow in 2024. We do expect 2024 full year CapEx to be notably larger than 2023. As a note, I think you all know this, but timing of cash payments can affect the quarterly CapEx number. But the main point is we’re continuing to invest.
Operator
Our next question comes from Ross Sandler with Barclays.
Ross Sandler
So I guess a question for, I don't know if Sundar or Philipp. But if we go back to the DOJ trial that happened in the fall, there was a document that was disclosed from Google that said something along the lines of why being on ad quality team to deliver 20% RPM growth in Search is a fragile strategy. Digging back to 2019, your business has, I think, more than doubled since then.
So I guess, as we sit here today in early 2024, how do you feel about Google's ability to drive Search RPM going forward? And I guess in the context of what Ruth said tonight about the large revenue base, just how do you feel about the monetization?
Sundar Pichai
Look, I think I have tremendous confidence in the quality driven both our work, be it search quality, ads quality, our improvements on search, our improvements on ads RPM, all -- 2 foundational pillars are extraordinary focus on ads quality so that we deliver the actual ROI to advertisers and improve the experience for users and all underpinned by rigor and technical excellence and go-to-market excellence, right?
So the fundamental attributes don't change. I think AI gives us opportunity both on the organic side as well as on the monetization side. And I think we are in the early days of it. I think we'll be able to, taking a long-term view, serve information needs in a deeper way. And so I think about it in that -- with that long-term context, and I'm pretty excited about what's ahead.
Operator
And our last question will be from Mark Mahaney with Evercore.
Mark Mahaney
One question on YouTube AI and one on Cloud. On Cloud first, there's just this volatility, this material deceleration last quarter and the nice reacceleration this quarter. Is that explained by where we are in the optimization cycle, and it may be generative AI workloads starting to trickle in now and cause that growth curve to bend back up? Any commentary just on the sort of the volatility, the deceleration and the reacceleration that we've seen?
And then, Philipp, I wanted to ask on the creative side, and particularly on YouTube and ads and the creative, using AI to improve the creative and really to offer SMBs who have been with Google forever but offer them now performance-based video ad campaigns created by AI. Is that kind of a new growth area? How far along are you in terms of offering this out into the market? And do you think that this opens up a new area of spend that wasn't there before?
Sundar Pichai
Thanks, Mark. On Cloud, let me take that. First of all, a combination of factors. I think definitely excitement around the AI solutions on top of our foundational pillar with data and analytics, infrastructure, security, et cetera. But AI is definitely something which is driving interest and early adoption. And as you saw, that greater than 70% of Gen AI unions are using Google Cloud. And so I think it's an area where our strengths will continue to play out as we go through '24, especially when I look at innovation ahead from us on the AI front. And second, I think there are regional variations, but the cost optimizations in many parts are something we have mostly worked through. And I think that was a contributing factor as well.
Philipp Schindler
So on your YouTube question, maybe let me start with a general view. YouTube submission, you know, has enabled millions of creators around the world to share their voice and connect with audiences and obviously build thriving businesses here. And AI has been a very critical piece of this already.
You are obviously aware of the made YouTube announcement where we introduced a whole lot of new complementary creativity features on YouTube, including Dream Screen, for example, and a lot of other really interesting tools and thoughts. You can obviously imagine that we can take this more actively to the advertising world already. As you know, it continues already to power AI, a lot of our video ad solutions and measurement capabilities. It's part of video rich campaigns. Multi-format ads are -- actually, there is a generative creator music that actually makes it easier for creators to design the perfect soundtrack already.
And as I said earlier, AI will unlock a new world of creativity. And you can see how this will -- if you just look at where models are heading, where multimodal models are heading, where the generation capabilities of those models are heading, you can absolutely see how this will impact and -- positively impact and simplify the flow for creators, similar to what you see already emerging in some of our core products like ACA on the Search side.
Operator
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Jim Friedland for any further remarks.
Jim Friedland
Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter 2024 call. Thank you and have a good evening.
Operator
Thank you, everyone. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect



